British Gas Plc pipeline arm TransCo confirmed on Tuesday that a tender for gas for September and October closed this afternoon.
TransCo tendered for 3,759 gigaWatt hours to be injected into storage during September and October, a spokesman said.
This equates to around 2.10 million therms a day if delivered evenly over the two months.
TransCo will notify successful tenderers on Thursday.
The gas is for "operating and balancing margins" -- in effect storage cover for the winter.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6412Industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average UK domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46.36) per year in 1997, rising to to over 50 pounds in 2001.  
These final proposals follow a draft released in May when the watchdog said TransCo, which is British Gas biggest moneymaker, should cut charges between by 20 to 28 percent in the year from April 1997, and by five percent thereafter.
"If the proposals are accepted (by British Gas), TransCo's customers will benefit from substantial price cuts from April 1997 and continuing real price reductions in the following years," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode said.
British Gas said in an initial reaction to the long-awaited decision that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject the proposed regime. "We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
Shares in British Gas initially rose on the news and were indicated 10 pence higher at 208 before the official start of trading on the London Stock Exchange.British Gas shares climbed three percent on Wednesday after industry watchdog Ofgas softened its stance in a crucial review of the utility's pipeline operating unit TransCo.
But while investors welcomed the new proposals, British Gas said it had hoped for bigger concessions and added it would try to wring further compromises out of regulator Clair Spottiswoode before deciding whether to accept Ofgas' review.
The watchdog said it wanted TransCo, which is British Gas's biggest earner, to slice 20 percent off its charges in the year from April 1997. It had initially proposed a 20 to 28 percent price cut in May.
But Ofgas's main concession was in the price cuts for the four years to 2001, saying that charges should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed three months ago.
The final proposals would lead to a cut in the average British household gas bill of almost 30 pounds ($45) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
Shares in British Gas gained 6-1/2 pence to close at 204-1/2 on the milder proposals.
They had collapsed in May, losing 25 percent of their value in the two weeks after Spottiswoode relaesed her harsh initial proposals.
Though she has now made some concessions, the final review is still tough overall and will probably lead to a big dividend cut next year, analysts said.
British Gas stuck to its earlier prediction that lower charges by TransCo to gas suppliers will mean that up to half of the unit's 20,000 jobs will go.
The utility said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
But Spottiswoode said her proposals were final and added that only details were negotiable.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the Mergers and Monopolies Commission," she told Reuters.
The MMC Britain's senior competition authority.
Spottiswoode said her compromises followed new investment data supplied by British Gas in the last couple of months.
Another reason for a more relaxed regime was that Ofgas wanted to prevent accusations that it aimed to mend any false generosity in the past by being extra harsh now.
"We actually got a very good compromise for both shareholders and customers," Spottiswoode told a news conference.
But Ofgas has to refer the matter to the MMC if British Gas rejects the latest proposals.
Most investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
But some analysts said British Gas has little to lose if the TransCo review is vetted by the MMC.
"I advise them to reject. It is worth a try," said Daniel Martin, analyst at brokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.Brazil and Bolivia are due to ratify on Sept. 4 a contract which will pave the way for construction of a $1.9 billion natural gas pipeline, a Brazilian official said.
The two countries' presidents would put their names to the contract which was signed earlier this month by their respective national energy companies, Luiz Menezes, a superintendent in charge of the project with Brazil's Petrobras said.  
Under the terms of the contract, Petrobras and its partners will buy 8.0 million cubic meters of Bolivian gas per day in the first year of the project at a price of $2.60 per million British Thermal Units (BTU).
The volume of gas will rise to 16 million cubic by the eighth year while the pipeline will be capable of carrying up to 30 million cubic meters of gas per day.
Menezes said negotiations over financing were ongoing with the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, Brazil's National Development Bank and the export-import banks of several countries.  
"We expect to close the financing by February or March and begin construction in April," he said.
Seventy percent of the $1.9 billion cost of the project is to be raised through financing with the partners providing the rest in equity, Menezes said.
The first tenders for equipment, principally the 500,000 tonnes of steel tubing which will run the length of the 1,900-mile (3,000-km) pipeline, should be published after the Sept. 4 signing, he said.  
Brazilian Energy Minister Raimundo Brito said he was preparing a presidential decree to expropriate land lying on the proposed course of the Brazilian leg of the  pipeline between the Bolivian border and the southern city of Porto Alegre.
Petrobras has lined up with British Gas, Tenneco Inc and Broken Hill Proprietary Co while Bolivia's Yacimentos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos is partnered with Enron Corp.
-- William Schomberg, Brasilia newsroom 5561 2230358British gas industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday announced a softer stance in a crucial price review of British Gas, but a row between the two looked set to continue as the privatised utility it was disappointed by the level of concessions.
Ofgas wants British Gas pipeline operating company TransCo to cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average British domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
"We are confident that these final proposals offer TransCo a realistic target for the next price control period and an appropriate incentive to improve efficiency and earn reward. We hope British Gas will accept the proposals," said Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode.
But British Gas said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
When Ofgas made its initial proposals, which included price cuts of 20 to 28 percent in 1997/98 and five percent thereafter, British Gas said the regime could cost up to 10,000 jobs at TransCo.
Rogerson said the firm stood by that figure after Ofgas' latest plans, adding: "We see no reason to change our view on jobs."
The level of the potential job losses has raised concerns over safety at TransCo if the price review goes ahead at these levels.
However, Spottiswoode dismissed the idea and said that independent safety watchdog, the Health and Safety Executive, had found the assumptions underpinning her proposals would not hit safety.
If British Gas rejects the proposals, Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to Britain's competition authority, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
Spottiswoode also struck a tone that suggested Ofgas' position was firm, and an MMC referral likely.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC," she told Reuters.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Spottiswoode, has worried some investors. But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike.
"We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he added.
Shares in British Gas rose in initial response to the Ofgas statement but later eased back to show a gain of four pence at 202 after a high of 210. Dealers said much of Ofgas' concesssions had alredy been factored into the price. ($1=.6471 Pound)The jury is still out among analysts whether British Gas should reject or accept the final Ofgas proposals for a new TransCo pricing regime.
Those in favour of accepting argue the utility should forget about regulation for the moment and devote its energy to fighting increased competition and prepare for its planned split-up.
"Following the easing of the Ofgas proposals the British Gas board should accept them at the earliest possibility and get on with their business," said Irene Himona at SG Strauss Turnbull.  
But BZW's Daniel Martin said British Gas should not give in as it has good reasons to believe it would find the Monopolies and Merger Commission (MMC) on its side.
The MMC will vet the Ofgas proposals if British Gas deems them unacceptable. British Gas has until October 7 to decide.
"I advice them (British Gas) to reject," said Martin.
Ofgas is propoing that TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997 and by 2.5 percent in the following four years.
The watchdog had initially demanded a one-off price cut of 20 to 28 percent and a drop of five percent in subsequent years.  
Ofgas arrived at its proposals by employing a new method, assuming adjusted depreciation rather than full depreciation of TransCo's assets.
"There is no precedent for that. It is a new thing and no other regulator has ever tried that. It is worth a try at the MMC," said Martin.
British Gas said earlier it wanted further talks with Ofgas, but director general Clare Spottiswoode said only details were still open for negotiation.
She said she had taken a slightly more lenient stance in her final proposals after having received new data from British Gas.  
Another reason to soften the proposals was to prevent accusations that she aimed to mend any false generosity in the past.
Analysts, however, agreed that the final review had remained harsh overall, probably forcing British Gas to trim its 1997 dividend to around 10 pence from 14.50 pence in 1995. Some analysts predict a cut in the 1996 interim pay-out.
-- Hans de Jongh, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Ever since British Gas Plc was privatised in 1986 it has been under the microscope of industry regulator Ofgas, whose aim is to turn the former state monopoly into a lean and mean company and protect consumers.
Currently, Ofgas is not only reviewing the pipeline charges of British Gas' unit TransCo, but it is also taking a look at the utility's prices in the domestic market.
Besides Ofgas, the Office of Fair Trading and the Monopolies and Merger Commission have also helped shape the operational framework under which British Gas has faced increased competition, first in the industrial market and now in part of the domestic market too.
Here is a list of their involvement since British Gas was privatised:
1986: Privatisation of British Gas, the world's largest integrated gas company and monopoly supplier of gas in Britain at 135 pence per share.
1987: Annual rises in British Gas' transport and storage costs are capped by retail price inflation minus two percentage points (RPI-2).
1988: First Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry calls for greater competition, specifically to industrial customers, and transparent pricing on the shipment of gas.
April 1991: British Gas accepts Ofgas proposals for a new and tougher tariff formula: RPI-5.
March 1992: British Gas gives undertakings to the OFT to give up all but 40 per cent of the market to supply gas to industrial customers by 1995, to establish a separate gas transportation and storage section with separate accounts and to develop transparent pricing for transportation which does not discriminate against other users of its pipelines.
July 1992: Competition in the industrial market increased to customers using more than 2,500 therms a year. Previous threshold was 25,000.
July 1992: Second involvement of the MMC as Ofgas asks it to examine the transportation and storage of gas and decide whether BG's pipeline monopoly is against the public interest.
Michael Heseltine, Trade and Industry Secretary, orders the MMC to make a comprehensive review of the gas industry, asking it to report on the transportation and storage of gas in line with the Ofgas referral, and on the supply of gas to larger industrial users as well as domestic customers.
August 1992: Ofgas asks the MMC to also investigate the fixing of prices for domestic and small commercial users.
August 1993: Publication of two reports on the gas industry relating to the references to the MMC. The MMC recommends the introduction of full competition by 2002 and the divestment of the gas trading business.
December 1993: Government announces there is no obligation to divest and says domestic competition should be introduced in 1996-98.
April 1994: RPI-4 tariff formula takes effect for gas prices in the market below 2,500 therms per year, implementing MMC recommendations.
October 1994: New transportation charging methodology takes effect under the RPI-5 formula.
January 1995: The Department of Trade and Industry and Ofgas release a consultation documents on pilot areas for domestic competition.
April 1996: Pilot project for domestic competition starts in south west of England.
May 1996: Ofgas releases initial proposals for a new transportation charge formula.
June 1996: Ofgas releases initial proposals for a new domestic gas price formula, suggesting RPI-5 instead of RPI-4.
August 1996: Ofgas releases final proposals for transport charge formula. It wants a one-off 20 percent cut in 1997 and a price cap of RPI-5 from 1998 to 2001. A third MMC inquiry will follow if British Gas does not reach agreement with Ofgas.A tough price review of British Gas Plc by industry regulator Clare Spottiswoode has heralded a new era for Britain's utility watchdogs as they at last show their teeth, analysts said on Wednesday.
Sector watchdogs have borne the brunt of derision and mockery over several years while lucrative utility companies' shares surged, apparently unruffled by regulatory price curbs.
Last March, electricity regulator Stephen Littlechild was even forced to reopen a price review on the 12 cash-rich electricity companies, having been embarrassed by the firms' largesse to their investors as they fended off hostile bids.
"It does look like regulators aren't going to have the wool pulled over their eyes any longer," said one analyst who declined to be named.
"They're quite astute these days and they are getting pretty wise to these companies."
Consumers, regulators say, will now feel more of the benefits of the controversial privatisation of Britain's gas, water and electricity industries.
Spottiswoode went some way on Wednesday towards meeting British Gas's objections to her earlier proposal of a maximum 28 percent cut in the prices charged by TransCo, the British Gas pipeline subsidiary, when she suggested a 20 percent one-off reduction in its charges.
But analysts said Spottiswoode had already set a new agenda with her initial proposals in May that sent gas shares plunging.
Two subsequent reviews by the power watchdog on Northern Ireland Electricity and National Grid, the power transmission network, have mirrored her unrelenting stance.
"I see May 13 as being a landmark date in terms of regulation," said Nigel Hawkins, utilities analyst at Yamaichi.
"That day we saw the first regulator being fairly savage on a company and, above all, actually saying that if you're heavily cash-negative from year to year -- so be it."
Despite British Gas's continued insistence that the planned Transco price curbs could cost the group 10,000 jobs, Spottiswoode's final proposals do show that there is scope during the consultation period to moderate positions.
Consumers will nevertheless see gas bills fall by 30 pounds ($46.44) next year, rising to 50 pounds in 2001.
There has also already been a 50 pound reduction in bills this year when electricity companies passed on to consumers the money they received from the sale of their National Grid shares.
To the outrage of British Gas, Spottiswoode initially proposed a one-off cut of 20-28 percent followed by annual price reductions at a rate of five percent below inflation per year.
She now wants Transco to cut prices by only 2.5 percent annually after the first big chop. Some analysts see the group's revenues being reined in by about 400 million pounds per year.
"She's been more lenient than some had expected, but I still think it's a very tough review," noted one analyst.
Littlechild is proposing cutting the Grid's prices by between 20 and 26 percent next year, followed by a cut in annual prices of four percentage points below inflation.
His final proposals will be published in September and until then, the company will be locked in last-minute battles with its regulator.
The Grid may see its revenues slashed by about 1.2 billion pounds over four years. But with transmission costs only accounting for seven percent of bills, electricity consumers may get between four and five pounds off annual bills.
Northern Ireland Electricity will see 60 million pounds wiped from its revenues. Average household power bills will fall by about 40 pounds in Northern Ireland.
Despite the concessions, British Gas still strongly opposes the way its regulator has written down the value of TransCo.
So the prospect of a Monopolies and Mergers Commission investigation may still loom. ($1=.6460 Pound)The UK's Energy Intensive Users Group (EIUG) said on Wednesday it was "extremely disappointed" by gas industry regulator Ofgas's final price proposals for British Gas unit TransCo.
"Energy intensive companies need internationally competitive energy prices to maintain their global market position," said EIUG chairman Ian Blakey in a statement.
"They have made an excessive contribution to British Gas' undeserved profitability since privatisation, and this control will continue to allow TransCo to charge over the odds for their monopoly pipeline".
EIUG combines 10 industry trade federations.
Ofgas published its final price proposals on Wednesday morning. According to Ofgas data, large firms -- defined as those using more than 300,260 therms a year -- now face an average annual gas bill of 567,000 stg.
TransCo's share of this, based on a notional transport route from Bacton in Norfolk to the West Midlands, is 25 percent.
In the first year of price controls, this bill will fall to 539,104 stg, a saving of 27,896 stg, if the Ofgas proposals are accepted. And in the year 2001/2002, the average bill for this group will be 511,835 stg, a saving from current levels of 55,165 stg, according to Ofgas.
While EIUG complains that the proposed cuts are too weak, British Gas argues that they are too draconian.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6412Britain's Gas Consumers Council said on Wednesday that it welcomed an earlier announced price review from industry watchdog Ofgas on British Gas Plc's TransCo pipeline arm.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average U.K. domestic gas bills of almost 30 stg per year in 1997, rising to to over 50 stg in 2001.
"This is regulation with a Robin Hood flavour. Ofgas has now redressed the balance between two million shareholders, who have enjoyed consistent high dividends since privatisation, and 18 million consumers," director Ian Powell said.
However, British Gas has not yet accepted or rejected the proposals and is to hold further talks with Ofgas in order to try and get the price plan amended.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Industry regulator Ofags said on Wednesday it would make no further concessions in any more talks with British Gas on the price proposals announced earlier today for pipleine operator TransCo.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission)," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode told Reuters.  
"Obviously there are a lot of small things, so we will have further discussions, but I want them to agree or disagree with the basics," Spottiswoode said.
Ofgas said earlier it wanted TransCo to slice 20 percent off its charges to gas suppliers in the year from April 1997, which was at the bottom of the price cut initially proposed in May.
Ofgas main concession was in the price cuts for the following years, saying prices should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed earlier. "That is the result of going outside the asset base range and giving them some more money on operating expenditure," Spottiswoode said.  
Extra information provided by British Gas had prompted Ofgas to add 27 million stg a year on average to its projections of Ofgas' costs.
Ofgas also raised its regulatory asset figure to 11.7 billion stg from an initial range of nine to 11 billion stg.
"We wanted to make sure that we could...under any interpretation... not be accused of clawing back revenue that has already been allowed," Spottiswoode said.
British Gas has until October 7 to decide wether to accept or reject the final proposals. They will be referred to the MMC if rejected.
-- Hans de Jongh, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Utility British Gas Plc said on Wednesday that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject a proposed price review from industry regulator Ofgas.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters in an interview.
The review proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.  
The price curbs proposed are at the bottom of a previously announced range of possible cuts.
But Rogerson said he was disappointed at the review.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," he said.
At the time the review was first announced, British Gas said it could cost up to a possible 10,000 jobs at TransCo and Rogerson said the firm was standing by that figure in the light of Ofgas' latest plans.
"We see no reason to change our view on jobs," he said.  
Rogerson said the firm is still hoping Ofgas will adjust its review downwards in the talks that lie ahead.
"We shall continue talking to Ofgas as long as we think there is a useful point in doing so. We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals," he said.
If British Gas rejects the proposals Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC). Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.  
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Ofgas, and its director general Clare Spottiswoode, has worried some investors.
But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike. "We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823Shares in British Gas Plc are expected to open higher after the publication of the latest price proposals for its transportation arm Transco from industry regulator Ofgas, traders said.
The proposal for a 20 percent reduction in transportation charges in 1997/98 and 2.5 percent thereafter compare with initial proposals for cuts in a range of between 20 and 28 percent in 1997/98 followed by five percent cuts thereafter.  
Ofgas said the proposals could lead to a cut in average domestic gas bills of almost 30 stg in 1997, rising to over 50 stg in 2001.
"It's a bit of a curate's egg. British gas have clearly lost out in year one. However, Spottiswoode has made significant concessions in subsequent years which gives British gas a far better chance of holding their dividend," said Yamaichi analyst Nigel Hawkins.
In early pre-market trading British Gas shares were 11-1/2p higher at 209-1/2p.  
Analysts said the initial 20 percent cut was as good as could have been expected, with most not having expected any concessions from Ofgas director Clare Spottiswoode.
But on the whole the review was seen as beneficial with the better-than-expected change in the RPI-minus formula for later years slightly outweighing the hefty year one cuts.
"Spottiswoode has moved quite significantly on the RPI-minus number (for) subsequent years and it is a well-enough pitched proposal conceivably to split the British Gas board on how to respond to it," said Hawkins.Industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operator TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.  
The final proposals follow an initial draft released in May when the watchdog said TransCo, which is British Gas biggest moneymaker, should cut charges between by 20 to 28 percent in the year from April 1997, and by five percent thereafter.
Ofgas said on Wednesday that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average UK domestic gas bills of almost 30 stg per year in 1997, rising to to over 50 stg in 2001.
"If the prosals are accepted (by British Gas), TransCo's customers will benefit from substantial price cuts from April 1997 and continuing real price reductions in the following years," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode said.  
"We are confident that these final proposals offer TransCo a realistic target for the next price control period and an appropriate incentive to improve effciency and earn reward," Spottiswoode said.
"We hope British Gas will accept the proposals," she added.
Spottiswoode dismissed fears that the Ofgas proposals would jeopardise safety. She said that the Health and Safety Executive had found that the assumptions underpinning the proposals would not hit safety.
British Gas will be able to opt for a review of its price control after three or four years.National Grid, which runs the English and Welsh high voltage electricity transmission system, called on its one million investors to help convince electricity regulator Stephen Littlechild to moderate his price review.
Following gas regulator Clare Spottiswoode's concessions to British Gas on Wednesday after a consultation period, the Grid said shareholders now had a chance to officially object to plans that could wipe up to 1.2 billion stg off revenues.
"It's (Spottiswoode's final proposals) a confirmation that it is well worthwhile for everybody to argue their point of view," a company spokesman told Reuters.  
Littlechild is proposing a one-off cut in prices in April 1997 of 20-26 percent, followed by a further four percent reduction in each of the following three years.
The Grid says the proposals announced last week will hit the revenues by 1-1.2 billion pounds over the four-year period and it reiterated its warning in an open letter on Thursday that the plans were against shareholders' interests.
"(They) will adversely effect our ability to grow dividends at a satisfactory rate," the Grid stated in a statement.  
The company, which says its own efficiency programme over the period would mean the loss of around 500 jobs, said that "obviously" job losses would increase with harsh price curbs.
The company argues the the proposals go against the spirit of "incentive regulation". The Grid said it has already cut costs by 40 percent since 1991 and does not believe there are comparable opportunities for cost reductions in the future.
Another point of contention is how Littlechild has valued its assets. Littlechild proposes to set the asset value by using the group's share price on the day of its listing.  
But shares have sunk from a high of 209 pence to 174 pence, and the company says the regulator's interpretation reduces the transmission asset value by over one billion stg, thereby reducing National Grid's income which is based on that value.
"Of course we want customers to have lower bills," wrote chairman David Jefferies in the open letter to shareholders.
"However, we believe the balance in the regulator's current proposals is tilted against your interests..."
The Grid has until September 10 to argue its case.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4017TransCo, the pipeline arm of British Gas plc has awarded a tender for September delivery to three separate companies, the company said today.
TransCo announced the award at 16.00 GMT. It is for 2,400 gigaWatt hours (2.73 million therms a day) in September.
Gas will be sourced from several different beach terminals with some also coming from the Rough storage facility.
Another TransCo tender, for 1,359 gigaWatt hours (1.496 million therms a day) in October, was announced yesterday and will close at the end of the month.
September gas was actively traded on the spot market today, traders said, and many assumed that tender winners were looking to cover their positions.
TransCo gave no details of the identity of the winners or the price.
--Sebastian Alison, London Newsroom, +44 171 542 6412