Chrysler Corp. Tuesday announced $380 million in new investments for South America, including assembly plants for pickup trucks and diesel engines in Brazil and the expansion of a Jeep plant now being built in Argentina.
Chrysler, which is cautiously trying to rebuild its international presence, said the projects in Brazil were worth about $315 million, and the expansion in Argentina was worth about $65 million.
Roughly one third of the total investment, or about $126.6 million, will come from Chrysler's suppliers, who will play a major role in the automaker's low-risk global growth strategy, Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said.
"We don't intend to make risky investments just to be a major player in emerging markets," added Thomas Gale, Chrysler's executive vice president of international operations. "We're quite content to grow at a steady pace in regions where we see solid opportunities."
Eaton said the investments will boost Chrysler's sales in the Mercosur free-trade zone, which groups Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.
But the company's limited production capacity will allow it only to grab a small portion of the Mercosur market away from rivals General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG, he said.
"We are targeting very specific market segments," he said. "We don't have any interest or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application."
The new Brazilian plant, which will be Chrysler's third limited-production facility in South America, will assemble the automaker's all-new Dakota compact pickup truck for sale in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the countries in the Mercosur free-trade zone.
In Argentina, Chrysler said it will add production of about 6,000 Jeep Cherokees a year at a plant now under construction in the Cordoba province. The plant is already scheduled to build about 14,000 Jeep Grand Cherokees per year starting next April, and Cherokee output will begin in 1998.
A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll off the assembly line starting in mid-1998, Chrysler said. Production, however, will be modest, with 12,000 trucks in the first year and an ultimate capacity of 40,000 units annually. Employment will start at 400 people.
The trucks at first will be largely assembled from "complete knock-down" kits shipped from the United States, but the automaker intends to meet the Mercosur trade bloc's 60 percent local content requirement after three years.
Chrysler has not decided whether to market the Dakota under the Dodge brand name or under one of its other brands. The automaker now uses the only Jeep and Chrysler brand names outside the United States, Canada and Mexico.
The $315 million Brazil investment also includes a new diesel engine plant to be built by Detroit Diesel Corp..
The $10 million facility will supply the company's Italian-designed VM Motori four-cylinder turbocharged diesel engines for use in the Brazilian Dakota as well as in Jeep models built in Argentina. Chrysler installs about 40,000 of the engines annually into minivans and Jeep Grand Cherokees sold in Europe.
Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler by opening plants in Latin America include Dana Corp., Johnson Controls Inc., Lear Corp., Lear Corp. United Technologies Corp. and PPG Industries Inc., Chrysler executives said.
Eaton said total annual vehicle sales in the four-country Mercosur region will increase from about 2 million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade.
"We think this is a major growth area," Eaton said. "It's politically and economically a stable region, we think with particularly rising consumer buying power."
Including a small plant in Venezuela that assembles Cherokees and Neon small cars from kits, the investments announced Tuesday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler and its suppliers have made in South America, the company said.
Chrysler stock rose 25 cents to close at $28.875 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange.Chrysler Corp. said Tuesday it plans to build a $315 million plant in Brazil and boost production at a plant being built in Argentina to expand its presence in South America.
The investment in Argentina will be $65 million, the nation's third-largest automaker said. The company has lagged behind rivals General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. in expanding overseas.
The new Brazilian plant, which will be Chrysler's third in South America, will assemble the compact Dakota pickup truck for sale in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the countries in the so-called Mercosur free-trade zone.
A site for the Brazilian plant will be selected by year-end and vehicles will roll of the assembly line starting in mid-1998, Chrysler said.
In Argentina, Chrysler will make the Jeep Cherokee at the plant under construction in Cordoba province starting in 1998, in addition to the Jeep Grand Cherokee starting next April.
"Our decision to manufacture in Brazil and expand production in Argentina is based on the favourable economic conditions and future growth prospects we see in the Mercosur," Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said in a statement.
The investments announced Tueday bring to $735 million the total financial commitments Chrysler has made in South America, the company said.
"With these new investments, we will substantially increase our sales in Mercosur," said Eaton. "The ultimate beneficiaries will be car buyers in the region who will have a bigger selection of Chrysler products available to them at better prices."
Chrysler also said the Detroit Diesel Corp., an engine supplier, will establish a new plant in Brazil to make engines for Dakotas built in Brazil and the Jeep Cherokees assembled in Argentina.
Chrysler recently redesigned the Dakota and plans to start selling it in the United States soon.
Chrysler stock rose 50 cents to $29 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.About one third of the $380 million investment in Latin America announced by Chrysler Corp on Tuesday will come from the automaker's suppliers, Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said.
Eaton told a news conference that several suppliers have committed to build new Latin American plants to support production of Dodge Dakota pickup trucks in Brazil and Jeep Cherokee sport/utility vehicles in Argentina.
Chief among those is Detroit Diesel Corp, which announced an investment of more than $10 million to build a new diesel engine plant in Brazil for the Chrysler vehicles.  
Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler expansion in Latin America include Dana Corp, Johnson Controls Inc, Lear Corp, United Technologies Corp, PPG Industries Inc and Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co, Chrysler executives said.
Chrysler earlier announced plans for a new truck assembly plant in Brazil worth $315 million, including supplier investments. The plant, which will initially employ about 400 people, will build Dodge Dakota compact pickup trucks largely from "complete knock-down" kits shipped from the United States, with local content gradually increasing.  
Construction will start by the end of the year and production will start in 1998. The plant will build 12,000 units in its first year and ultimately will have a capacity of 40,000 vehicles.
Chrysler also announced that it will expand production of the plant it is now building in Argentina to produce Jeep Cherokee sport/utility vehicles there, a project that represents an additional investment of $65 million.
The plant in the province of Cordoba, announced a year ago at a cost of $100 million, was scheduled to begin producing Jeep Grand Cherokee sport/utility vehicles in mid-1997.  
The plant will add Cherokee production in mid-1998 at an initial annual volume of 6,000 vehicles, growing to 10,000 in five years.
Eaton said the investments marks a major committment to the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay.
"We think this is a major growth area," Eaton said. "It's politically and economically a stable region, we think with particularly rising consumer buying power."
He said annual vehicle sales in the four-country region will increase from about two million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade.
He said it is necessary for Chrysler to assemble vehicles locally to participate in the market and the trucks earmarked on Tuesday for production will meet the the Mercosur requirement for 60 percent local content within three years.
He said Chrysler's growth in the region will be cautious.
"We are targeting very specific market segments, we don't have any interest, or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application."Detroit Diesel Corp said Tuesday it plans to establish a new engine manufacturing operation in Brazil to provide diesel engines to Chrysler Corp.
The engines will be used for Chrysler's new Dakota assembly plant in Brazil and for a Jeep Cherokee assembly plant in Argentina.
The engines will also be used by a Chrysler Jeep assembly plant in Toledo, Ohio, for use in export production.
The new operation is expected to begin production in early 1998, Detroit Diesel said in a statement.  
Chrysler said Tuesday it plans to build a manufacturing plant in Brazil to assemble a new Dakota pickup truck. It also said it will add production of its Jeep Cherokee sport utility vehicle at a plant under construction in Argentina.
"This new operation represents a continuation of our global partnership with Chrysler," Detroit Diesel Chairman Roger Penske said in a statement. Detroit Diesel currently supplies almost 40,000 engines a year to Chrysler assembly plants in the United States and Europe.
Detroit Diesel said it plans to supply Chrysler with 15,000 engines the first year following start of production, building to 30,000 engines a year within three years.
This new operation could also be a South American base for other Detroit Diesel products and markets, Penske said.
The company's VM Turbotronic 425 engine is intended to meet local content requirements of 60 percent within three years and Detroit Diesel said it is confident it will meet that goal. It currently imports about $24 million worth of material from Brazil used in Detroit Diesel engines a year.
Detroit Diesel makes, remanufactures, sells and services heavy-duty diesel and alternative fuel engines, automotive diesel engines and related products.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787Chrysler Corp said it would announce plans on Tuesday for a new manufacturing investment in South America in conjunction with Detroit Diesel Corp.
The two companies gave no details of the investment, but a Chrysler spokesman said it was being made in addition to the $100 million assembly plant project that Chrysler is currently building in Argentina.
Industry analysts said the project was expected to be in Brazil and was likely to include diesel engines for a light truck for the Latin American market.
Detroit Diesel owns VM Motori SpA, in Centro, Italy, which produces diesel engines for Chrysler minivans and Jeep Grand Cherokee minivans built in Graz, Austria.
VM Motori technology may be adapted for a Chrysler-built vehicle for Latin America, said Michael Robinet, managing director for CSM Forecasting in Farmington Hills, Mich.
Such a vehicle could use the company's Jeep Grand Cherokee platform or its front-wheel-drive Neon car platform, he said.
Chrysler said its chairman, Robert Eaton, would hold a news conference at 1100 EDT Tuesday at company headquarters, along with Detroit Diesel Chairman Roger Penske.Chrysler Financial Corp has issued a four-tranche asset-backed bond for a total of $1.25 billion, lead manager Merrill Lynch said.
The deal will be priced later.
Tranche A notes total $600 million and have an average life of 0.95 years. They will be priced to yield around 0.75 basis points over one-month Libor with a 12 percent cap.
Tranche B fixed-rate notes total $353 million and have an average life of 2.05 years. Pricing is expected at 29-30 b.p. over two-year U.S. Treasury notes.  
Tranche C notes total $240.742 million. Maturing in October 2001, they will be priced to yield 33 b.p. over U.S. Treasuries.
Tranche D is for $56.249 million. Maturity is August 2002, and pricing is likely around 50 b.p. over Treasuries.
* * * *
TRANCHE A (CLASS A2)
 AMT    $600 MLN	SPREAD     *0.75     LEGAL MAT   06.SEP.99
 TYPE	 FRN	 BASE	 1M LIBOR  AV LIFE     0.95 YRS
 FULL FEES  0.1625    ISS PRICE  ** REOFFER     **
+ + + +
TRANCHE B (CLASS A3)
 AMT    $353 MLN	COUPON     **	  LEGAL MAT   06.NOV.00
 TYPE	 STRAIGHT  ISS PRICE  **	  AV LIFE     2.05 YRS
 FULL FEES  0.20	REOFFER    **	  SPREAD	+29/30 BP
+ + + +
TRANCHE C (CLASS A4)
 AMT    $240.742 MLN  COUPON     **	  MATURITY    06.OCT.01
 TYPE	 STRAIGHT  ISS PRICE  **
 FULL FEES  0.25	REOFFER    **	  SPREAD	+33 BP
+ + + +
TRANCHE D (CERTIFICATES)  AMT    $56.249 MLN   COUPON     **	  MATURITY    06.AUG.02
 TYPE	 STRAIGHT  ISS PRICE  **
 FULL FEES  0.325     REOFFER    **	  SPREAD	+50 BP
+ + + +
COMMON TERMS
 LISTING    LUX	 PAY FREQ   MONTHLY   DENOMS (K) ONE
 NEG PLG    NO	  CRS DEFLT  NO	  FORCE MAJ   NO
 GOV LAW    NEW YORK  HOME CTRY  =	   TAX PROVS   STANDARD
 NOTES	*12.0 PCT CAP
	     **TO BE PRICED
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7658Latinvest Securities Ltd on Thursday reiterated its strong buy' recommendation for Brazilian autoparts manufacturer Cofap.
"Our recommendation is based on a sharp turnaround in earnings and the stock's underperformance in the past year," Latinvest said in a note to investors on Thursday.
In 1995, the company invested heavily to rationalise its production logistics completely.
"Now it is moving on to a new phase in its growth strategy -- globalisation -- by strengthening its relationship with Mahle, Chrysler and Fiat," said Latinvest.
Latinvest said that as a result of this strategy, operating profit should jump to R$37 million in 1996 and R$48 million in 1997 from just R$2 million in 1995.
Net profit should rise to R$19 million in 1966 and R$30 million in 1997 from R$17 million in losses last year, it added.
--Julia Meehan, London newsroom 4471 542 79 28-- CS First Boston confirmed that analyst Nick Colas reintiated coverage of Chrysler Corp with a buy rating.
--estimated earnings of $4.71 per share for 1996, and $4.95 for 1997.
-- set 12-month price target of $35.
-- shares opened up 1/2 to 30.-- CS First Boston reinitiated coverage of Chrysler Corp with a buy rating and a one-year price target of $35, a market source said.
-- The stock closed at 29-1/2 Wednesday.  
-- The analyst could not be reached for comment.