The Trocadero entertainment complex in the heart of London's Piccadilly marked its relaunch on Tuesday after a 50 million pound ($77 million) redevelopment that it said was expected to triple revenues over five years.
"An estimated 55 million visitors a year pass by the Trocadero and some 20 million people come through the centre," Nick Leslau, chief executive of Trocadero Plc, told a news conference.
The challenge, he said, was to convert visitors into money-spending consumers.
Leslau said he expected the retail revenues to triple over the next five years, the time span in which he expects the centre to reach maturity.
He said Trocadero would seek to convert rental agreements into revenue-sharing deals as leases expire.
Trocadero and Japan's Sega together invested about $77 million in redesigning the centre -- shifting its focus from shopping to entertainment and giving it a flashy, high-tech look -- and installing a SegaWorld virtual reality centre due to open next month.
An Imax 3D cinema is to open in early 1997.
The complex's current entertainment and shopping tenants -- including cinemas, an amusement arcade and a Planet Hollywood restaurant as well as shops -- generate retail revenues of about 125 million pounds ($192 million) a year, Leslau said. Trocadero derives its revenues from the rental income it receives from these tenants.
It recently entered into a joint venture for a Marvel Mania themed restaurant to be built adjacent to the Trocadero. The Marvel Mania restaurant, based on characters from Marvel comics, is a joint venture with Robert Earl's Planet Hollywood and Ronald Perelman's Marvel Entertainment Group Inc.
Trocadero's current rental deals provide guaranteed income that is sufficient to cover the complex's service debt and overhead for the next 22 years, Leslau said.
Trocadero Plc was spun off from property management group Burford Holdings last November. Burford had acquired the Trocadero complex in September 1994 for 94 million pounds ($145 million). At that time the Trocadero was a shopping mall.
"The key to success at the Trocadero lay in its transformation from a shopping mall into a premier entertainment destination," Leslau added.German utility group Viag AG on Tuesday said its net profit this year ought to at least match 1995's 1.32 billion marks ($886.1 million) despite a 21 percent slide in its earnings in first-half 1996.
The diversified group said its pre-tax profit slumped to 1.178 billion marks in the first six months of 1996, but chairman Georg Obermeier stressed that the comparative 1995 figure was swollen by one-off gains from selling off units.
Speaking to a news conference, Obermeier said operating profit had risen 10 percent in the six-month period, but declined to give absolute figures.
He also noted that the bulk of Viag's first-half profit in 1995 was the result of one-off gains from the sale of its 43.4 percent stake in Germany's biggest paper maker PWA and the final consolidaton of its SKW Trostberg unit.
"Overall the Viag group is developing in line with ... expectations. The economic weakness of the winter period had an effect on the cyclical divisions, however growth tendencies are evident again in several areas," Viag said.
Viag also said its group sales expanded by two percent to 21.803 billion marks from 21.375 billion in the first half of 1996.
The group said sales growth was varied across different divisions, with strong gains in its energy units, in its SKW unit's natural fibres division, drinks packaging at its Schmalbach-Lubeca unit and at Computer 2000.
However turnover in aluminium business at its VAW unit and steel trading at its Kloeckner unit had come under strong pressure, Viag said.
Overall packaging sales dropped to 5.9 billion marks from 6.3 billion marks, while the other core business segments -- energy, chemicals and logistics -- posted sales growth.
Viag said it would continue to expand its core business areas and proceed with a range of restructuring and cost-cutting measures.
Group investment in fixed assets dropped to 792 million marks from 913 million marks in the first half of 1996 while group spending on participations dropped dramatically to 178 million marks from 1.49 billion.
In the first half of 1995, Viag and its units bought several major companies including SBI Systems Bio-Industries, bought by Viag's chemicals division and a majority stake in Computer 2000.
Viag's workforce was little changed at 82,874 compared with 84,939 in the first six months of 1995.
($1=1.4895 Mark)Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in Britain and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in Britain or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.
Fleet will provide U.S. dollar accounts and cash management services to the U.S. subsidiaries and offices of British-based companies. Fleet currently markets U.S. cash management services directly to British companies from its office in London.
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in Britain and is the second largest retail bank in the country with over 2,000 branches.Daily Mail and General Trust Plc expanded its informaiton publishing interests on Tuesday by paying 9.2 million stg for a 40 percent stake in the British Study Group Ltd.
The deal allows the group to become a wholly owned subsidiary by the year 2002 based on a payment which is related to the company's performance. This would value the acquisition at 23 milion stg in total.
DMGT has paid three million cash and the balance through the issue of loan notes.
The group made a 1.3 million 1995 pretax profit.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717China is urging its colour television producers to end a price war, saying it is hurting the domestic industry and helping foreign brands, the Economic Daily said on Tuesday.
The price war -- touched off in March by industry giant Sichuan Changhong Electric Appliances Co ltd -- was an attempt to counter rampant smuggling of foreign TVs and rising domestic stockpiles, Liu Jianfeng, vice minister of the Ministry of Electronics Industry was quoted as saying.
Smuggling has been a major problem, allowing many vendors to avoid duties and making foreign brands very competitive compared to domestic television sets.
The price slashing has cut into earnings of domestic makers. Major companies in the domestic television market include Shenzhen Konka Electronics (Group) Co Ltd and Hong Kong-listed Nanjing Panda Electronics Co Ltd.
The newspaper did not list any specific measures to be taken but it pointed to high-level government concern over the impact on the domestic industry.
Television makers should upgrade their technology and strengthen management instead of slashing prices to promote sales, Liu said.
The price cuts were putting increasing pressure on domestic producers and some small-scale firms had already been forced out of business, it said.
"The price cuts will cause domestic producers to kill each other off, which is harmful to both producers and the state," it quoted Liu as saying.
Foreign firms that had set up joint ventures in China using high technology and cheap labour would benefit and capture a larger market share, it said.
Foreign joint ventures, however, say they too are victims of the smuggling as they are finding it hard to compete with the illegally imported products.
Smuggled and legally imported sets accounted for 40 percent of the 13.6 million colour televisions sold in China in 1995, official figures show. Foreign brands produced in China had a 24 percent market share and domestic brands 36 percent.Samsung Heavy Industries Co, a unit of the Samsung Group, said on Tuesday it would officially spin-off its commercial vehicle division into a wholly-owned subsidiary on Thursday.
The new company, tentatively named "Samsung Commercial Vehicle Ltd," will have a paid-in capital of 100 billion won, a Samsung Heavy spokesman said.
The subsidiary plans to invest 1.2 trillion won until 1999 in capacity expansion, a statement from Samsung Heavy said. The company expects annual production to reach 50,000 light trucks by September 1998 and steadily increase to 200,000 units.
It also plans to become one of the world's top 10 commercial vehicle makers by 2003.
--Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Whitbread Plc is one tasty investment among a handful of overseas concerns that have drawn the attention of the manager of Artisan Partners international Mutual Fund, Barron's reported.
In its Monday edition, the financial weekly interviewed Mark Yockey, who identified favorite overseas investment candidates, including U.K.-based Corporate Services Group Plc , Sonae Investimentos-SGPS SA in Portugal, and Mexico's Empresas ICA Sociedad Controladora .
Yockey also picked Finland's Aamulehti Yhtyma Oy , Schibsted A/S , based in Norway, and China's Guangzhou Investment Co Ltd .Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.Ireland's largest food company, Kerry Group Plc, said on Tuesday that pre-tax profits rose by 21 percent to 20.0 million punts ($32.08 million) in the first half of 1996, reflecting a strong performance in all divisions.
The group's main ingredients division, bolstered by the $402 million acquisition of U.S. food ingredients group DCA in November 1994, reported a seven percent increase in operating profits to 29.4 million punts.
On the consumer foods side, Kerry Foods reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million punts while operating margins rose to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said in a statement.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.
Kerry said current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.
Chairman Michael Hanrahan said the company would now focus on maximising the potential of its fruit ingredients business on a Europe-wide basis following the acquisition of Ciprial, a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy, in February.
Kerry's debt-equity ratio, which soared to 120 percent following the purchase of DCA, stood at 108 percent by June 30, 1996.
But the 54 million punt acquisition of Ciprial has led the group to revise its end-year net debt target upward. Kerry, which had planned to cut its debt-equity ratio to 70 percent before buying Ciprial, is now aiming for gearing of 90 percent at end-1996.
Kerry announced an interim dividend of 1.265 Irish pence per share. The share price was unchanged at 592 by 1255 GMT. ($1=.6234 Punt)Irish food company Kerry Group Plc said on Tuesday that current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.  
In its half-year results statement, Kerry said it was on target to complete the integration of the DCA food ingredients business in the current financial year.
Kerry acquired the U.S. food ingredients company for $402 million in November 1994.
Earlier this year, Kerry also acquired Ciprial S.A., a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy.
"With the addition of Ciprial, we are now focusing on maximising the potential of the combined Ciprial/Margetts fruit ingredients businesses on a European-wide basis," Kerry said.
Earlier, the group reported a 21 percent increase in pre-tax profits to 20.0 million Irish pounds, ahead of analysts expectations of 19.2 million.
Kerry said that all divisions performed strongly in the first half with turnover increasing by nine percent to 589.4 million Irish pounds.
A divisional breakdown showed that Kerry Ingredients reported an increase in operating profits to 29.4 million Irish pounds from 27.4 million a year earlier.
Sales were up 332.2 million from 299.9 million.
Operating margins slipped slightly to 8.8 percent from 9.1 percent but Kerry said this reflected the inclusion of Ciprial and higher raw material costs.  
Kerry Foods, the group's consumer foods division, reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million on sales of 226.8 million with operating margins rising to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopahty (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.  
Geographically, Kerry said that turnover in its Irish market was static but the group recorded progress in all its major markets.
Irish sales were little changed at 213.1 million against 213.6 million in the same period last year.
But turnover in European markets excluding Ireland rose by 22 percent to 186 million punts, sales in North America increased by nine percent to 190.3 million.
-- Dublin Newsroom +353 1 676 9779Preliminary results July
(in million zlotys unless stated)
JULY
 Group net profit	     4.46 vs   1.43
 Group pre-tax profit	 5.28 vs   1.82
 Group operating profit     2.86 vs     na
 Group sales		   48.57 vs  24.79
JANUARY-JULY
 Group net profit	    25.28 vs  12.60
 Group pre-tax profit	28.42 vs  14.98
 Group operating profit    12.23 vs     na
 Group sales		  252.66 vs 159.06
Note. Full name of the Polish construction and trading company
is Mostostal Export SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Ten billion crowns and 16 years after the first production licence was awarded in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea, oil companies are again eyeing its Arctic waters as a potential source of crude and gas.
But while Norway has revised terms and conditions for exploration to attract renewed investment there, industry sources say the latest licensing round will be make or break for the region.
"The Barents Sea enigma is still not resolved," said an oil company official. "But we're looking at the last major (licensing) round. If it's a success and someone strikes oil, then we will have a new boom in the area. If not, then I think people will cut their losses and give up."
Since 1980 53 wells have been drilled in the southern area of the Barents, yielding nearly two billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or five percent of discovered resources on the Norwegian continental shelf, according to the state Oil Directorate.
More than 90 percent of the finds have been of natural gas, the largest being the Snoehvit field, which holds around 100 million cubic metres of oil equivalent. None have proved to be of commercial interest.
"It's very remote up there and expensive to develop and operate," said an industry analyst. "Given that and the threat to gas prices from liberalisation, you'd be a brave man to start developing in the Barents. There are a lot of other gas plays closer to hand."
Norway, which pumps about three million barrels per day, is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia thanks to fields in the North and Norwegian Seas.
Twelve companies have nominated for blocks they want to see offered under the licensing round, known as the Barents Project.
The energy ministry will invite bids for Barents acreage in the third quarter. Awards will be announced in April 1997.
Company officials said new, more flexible licence conditions for the Barents had helped attract interest.
"The results to date have been less than encouraging, no major economically-viable discoveries have been made," said Matt Toner, exploration manager for Amoco Norway . "But in any (oil company) portfolio it's important to have some frontier, high-risk area and therefore potential high rewards."
Norway's state oil company Statoil, along with working group partners Saga Petroleum , Norsk Hydro, Amoco, Elf and Mobil , has been studying data collected from previous exploration drilling.
"We have reassessed the results from previous drilling and we have decided to continue working towards applying for a concession," said Yngve Vassmyr, Statoil project manager.
"We have a better understanding of the geology and potential of the Barents, but I would emphasise that the risk is still high. A lot of money has already been spent in the area and we should keep that in mind."
Vassmyr said advances in technolgy would help improve commercial viability of any finds.
In the 1980s the economics of development required discoveries of between 315 and 630 million boe. Today new technology means prospects of around 200 million boe -- about the size of the Balder and Njord oilfields -- can be seriously considered, he said.
Others considering applying for concessions are Amerada Hess , Conoco , Enterprise Oil , Neste, Norsk Agip and Phillips .
Industry sources are quick to note the absence of the big oil players British Petroleum , Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Esso from the round.
"It's a question of different priorities for each company, but I think it's significant they are not taking part," said a source at one of the companies considering applying.
"Maybe they've done their homework. There are better opportunities elsewhere to put your money."Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.British Airways Plc (BA) said on Tuesday that it had no plans for new alliances over the next few years, but would extend its global reach by franchising its popular brand name to smaller airlines.
British Airways has an alliance with Australian carrier Qantas Airways Ltd and formed an alliance with American Airlines in June, although this is subject to regulatory approvals and a legal suit by USAir Group, in which BA holds 24.6 percent.
"One of the great challenges of alliance development is the management challenge and I think it would be unwise to take on any more than we can absorb at any one time," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said at an industry luncheon in Sydney.
Reports that BA would look to an alliance with a Japanese airline, notably Japan Airlines, were quashed by Ayling in a speech to the National Aviation Press Club in Sydney.
"I think the Japanese airline industry is an independent industry and I think it will remain a strongly independent industry. If there are opportunities in the future for developing relationships there with other carriers then obviously we will do that," Ayling said.  
However, Ayling said the airline's four-year experiment with franchising its brand name to smaller airlines was successful and would be an area of future growth, providing safety and customer service standards were met.
"It is a way of bringing extended services to customers and of allowing operators of smaller airlines, who would have found it very difficult to survive in this world of global networks, to be more successful," Ayling said.
In June, BA signed its first franchise agreement outside of the European Union with South Africa's largest independent carrier, Comair. Under the deal Comair's eight-jet fleet will use the British Airways name and livery.
Under the existing rules it would have been impossible to acquire or invest more than 50 percent in an airline in South Africa, said Ayling. "South Africa is a part of the world which would not be open to us if we didn't have this deal," he said.
Ayling is visiting Australia to look at the operations of BA's 25 percent stake in Qantas, the national carrier.
Under the alliances with American Airlines and Qantas, BA and its partners fly to over 500 destinations in about 100 countries. Ayling said BA's global alliance could lead to opportunities in other parts of the world.  
"We may see, although this may be some way off, fleet acquisition opportunities, which would make a significant impact on procurement of aircraft," said Ayling.
"Once these agreements are put in place and they are being effectively managed, we will be able to see some things we are not able to see at the moment," he said.
Two weeks ago, BA reported an 11.1 percent rise in first quarter profits to 150 million sterling (US$231 million) on sales of 2.103 billion sterling. It forecast another record year in the year to March 1997.--Chicago Corp analyst Jackson Spears said he started coverage of First Enterprise Financial Group Inc with a buy rating.
--Shares in the consumer and automobile finance company closed up 3/4 at 10-1/8.
-- Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Security Capital Industrial Trust said on Tuesday it has commenced a rights offering for shareholders to buy 6,787,806 common shares at a price of $17.25 per share.
Security Capital's shareholders of record on August 30, 1996, will receive a dividend of one right for each share held, the company said.
Twelve rights will be required to purchase one Security Capital share for $17.25 in the rights offering, which expires on September 24, 1996, the company said. As of the end of the company's second quarter, the company had approximately 80 million shares outstanding.
Proceeds of the offering will be used to repay borrowings under Security Capital's $350 million unsecured revolving line of bank credit and to invest in additional distribution properties in its target markets.
Security Capital Group Inc, Security Capital's principal shareholder and the owner of the real estate investment trust manager, has agreed to exercise in full its rights and may seek to buy additional shares, the company said.The New York Stock Exchange said on Tuesday Allen Group Inc, Newbridge Networks Corp, Rexene Corp and Jenny Craig Inc are unavailable for news pending.
Corimon SACA also is unavailable for after-hours trading, the NYSE said.CORESTaff Inc said Tuesday it had acquired Pacific Data Group,  which it described as the largest independent information technology company in Oregon for undisclosed terms.
COREStaff said it had signed a defnitive agreement to acquire all of the company's issued and outstanding stock in cash.
The temporary staffing company said it expected to close the acquisition by August 31 without giving any more details.
It said the founders of Pacific Data Group would keep running the business.
COREStaff said the addition of the acquired company to its information technology group COMSYS would boost pro forma 1995 revenues to about $220 million.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Electronic Manufacturing Services Group said Tuesday it intends to acquire Hybrid-Tek Inc, a private company based in Clarksburg, N.J.
As part of the agreement, EMSG will purchase all of Hybrid-Tek's common stock, and will pay Hybrid-Tek's shareholders cash and EMSG stock at the closing.
Hybrid-Tek's existing management has agreed to remain in place for the next year. It will continue to operate out of its current location and under the same name.
The final terms and conditions are subject to approval by EMSG's board.GPU Inc on Tuesday filed a shelf registration for up to seven million common shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Net proceeds will be used to repay a portion of the debt incurred by the GPU International Group to acquire its interest in Midlands, GPU said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
GPU may also us the net proceeds to make cash capital contributions ot its subsidiaries, the filing said.
The underwriters were not named in the filing.Novell Inc, saying its future growth and survival is at stake, launched an aggressive push into the Intranet market by introducing IntranetWare, a network platform adapted from Novell's NetWare network operating system to fully open standards for operating corporate Intranets.
The Orem, Utah software company has been the leading vendor of network operating system platform. But its NetWare has a history as a proprietary system, although Novell has made revisions to gradually open it to standards compliant.  
Consequently, Novell has been perceived in the market as out-of-the-loop as the tide of corporate interest in developing Internet-like Intranets has swept through the business world this year.
"Fundamentally our future is at stake here," said Novell executive vice president Steven Markman when asked the importance of IntranetWare's launch to Novell's strategy. "If we are looking for growth, the only way we are going to get it is with open standards, Internet-Intranet based network services tied to network services," he said. "This is survival, it is fundamental."  
With IntranetWare, which will be generally available in October, Novell will be shipping a whole series of Intranet applications and network management tools, including a NetWare Web server, a fast server which integrates Novell's existing Directory Services product, GroupWise 5.0 a messaging and collaboration application, and ManageWise 2.1 an Intranet network management solution.
Executives demonstrating the products at a press conference here said they hope to convince the market that IntranetWare and its associated products combine the reliability, robustness and security features of the old NetWare platform with the open easy-to-access features of an Intranet.  
NetWare has about 55 million users and has been a market leader among corporate networking platforms.
But analysts have said Novell stood to lose that distinction if it did not move into the Intranet direction.
International Data Corp analyst Mark Levitt said Novell would face too much of a risk if it did not answer the market demand for Intranet products.
Indeed, Markman said many customers have asked Novell to make its network products Intranet based.
The question remains, however, whether or not Novell launched its Intranet strategy and products soon enough.  
Some analysts said Novell customers have had to wait a year for direction from Novell about how to migrate from NetWare to an Intranet network and relied on others meanwhile.
"The market is ripe for Intranet solutions and I think they've hit the needs right on. People are going to be more accepting of an Intranet solution from a company with a large installed base like Novell," said Ron Rappaport, research associate at Zona Research.
"The question is are they late."
Markman maintained that Novell is not late, saying that customers are just now figuring out what Intranets are.Madison Sports & Entertainment Group Inc said on Tuesday it has named Kevin Michael Ward co-chairman of the board of directors and has accepted the resignations of Anthony Joffe and William Radcliffe as board members.
The company said it elected Ward, Walter Shaw and Gary Langan Goodenow as new members of the board. Ward will share the duties of chairman with current chairman, chief executive and president Joseph Radcliffe.
Ward is founder of KTL Financial Services Inc and is currently its president. He has also served as president of KTL Sports Management Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Madison.CIGNA International said it named John Billett to the newly-created post of vice president of regional life insurance operations, based in London.
Billett, previously with American International Group Inc, will be responsible for developing and implementing the company's life insurance business strategies in Europe and in selected markets in the Middle East and Africa.
CIGNA International is a division of CIGNA Corp.
--New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.The following are lists of positive and negative earnings surprises compiled by First Call.  Earnings surprises and historical information are provided by First Call.
			 First Call Earnings Surprises
Positive Surprises
------------------	First Call
				   Consensus  Actual
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS   Surprise
S&K Famous Brands  Q2Jul96    0.13     0.17     30.8%
Brown Group Inc    Q2Jul96    0.25     0.31     24.0%
National Picture   Q1Jul96    0.11     0.13     18.2%
Layne Inc	    Q2Jul96    0.25     0.28     12.0%
Shiloh Industries  Q3Jul96    0.28     0.31     10.7%
PHH Corp	     Q1Jul96    0.56     0.61	8.9%
Harnischfeger Corp Q3Jul96    0.74     0.80	8.1%
Toys R Us Inc	Q2Jul96    0.09     0.10	N/A
Negative Surprises
------------------				First Call
				   Consensus Actual
Company Name	 Period    EPS     EPS   Surprise
BioWhittaker Inc    Q3Jul96   0.14    0.13     -7.1%
Designs Inc	   Q2Jul96   0.08    0.04	N/A
			Other Companies Reporting Today
Positive Reports
----------------			     First Call
				   Consensus  Actual
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
Harcourt General    Q3Jul96    1.45     1.45     0.0%
SCB Computer Techno Q1Jul96    0.18     0.18     0.0%
Negative Reports
----------------				First Call
				    Consensus  Actual
 Company Name	Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
None Reported.
Legend:
N/A	All or some data necessary for calculation is
	   unavailable.
N/C	Not Calculable, e.g. divisor (Mean estimate) = 0, and
	   there is more than one estimate.
N+	 Actual EPS is larger than Mean estimate. Mean
	   estimate is negative or zero.
N-	 Actual EPS is smaller than Mean estimate. Mean
	   estimate is negative or zero.Pearson Plc, parent company of Madame Tussauds wax museum, is one of four companies bidding to operate a visitor centre at Britain's historic Stonehenge, according to a published report.
The Tussauds division of Pearson, along with Heritage Projects, the Imagination Group and the York Consortium have been short-listed for the contract to design, build, finance and operate a visitor centre at the 5,000 year old monument, the Guardian reported. English Heritage is responsible for Stonehenge.
Heritage Projects manages the Jorvik Viking centre in York. The Imagination Group has been selected as the festival designer for Britian's Millennium Exhibition in Greenwich and the York Consortium is involved in heritage projects in Britain and overseas. The Stonehenge visitor centre would be located outside and park and would probably include a light railway to take visitors to an observation point a half-mile from the historic site, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Yr ended June 30, 1996
			(million rand unless stated)
Shr (cts)
    - headline		     19.9	 vs     17.2
    - attrib			 10.4	 vs     17.2
    Div (cts)	3.25 making 5.75	 vs     5.0
    Attrib income		  8.17	 vs     12.32
    Pre-tax			 11.78	 vs     13.15
    Tax				3.63	 vs     0.83
    Interest paid		  2.05	 vs     1.68
    Turnover		     286.76	 vs     199.93
    Share of associates'	 0.02	 vs     nil
    Goodwill written off	 7.41 loss  vs     nil
Div payable September 6
on register September 23
Full name: Control Instruments Group Ltd
NOTE - The group said it had adopted a conservative policy in its treatment of goodwill and had written off the amounts.
It said although the difficult trading conditions encountered during the last quarter of the year under review were expected to continue, it was confident that it should maintain growth in the current financial year.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Deep staffing cuts and slightly higher banking service revenues led Brazil's Bamerindus to return to the black with a 20.431 million real net profit in 1996's first half, a top bank official said.
The bank, which had reported a 10 million real loss in the first quarter, also ended the January-to-June period with a higher net worth, totalling 1.368 billion reais, up from 1.239 billion reais in the same period last year.  
Mauricio Schulman, president of Bamerindus' board of directors, said the bank reduced its staff by 3,000 employees to 25,142 people in the first half, contributing to drop in administrative expenses to 838 million reais in the period from 948 million reais in December 1995.
"We reduced our costs by 110 million reais in six months, without closing branches, cutting the number of transactions or clients," Schulman told reporters, adding that the bank's annual target is to cut costs by 150 million reais or 12 percent of its net worth.  
Efforts to increase banking service revenues were also part of the bank's strategy to improve its finances. Bamerindus said receipts from banking services rose to 255 million reais in the first half, up from 214 million reais in the same period of 1995.
With the release of positive first half results, Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, expects to rebuild public confidence, undermined by persistent rumors in recent months of the bank's liquidity troubles and speculation that the bank would be sold.  
Schulman said what hurt the bank most were the market rumors. He said the bank lost 1.585 billion reais in total deposits from 1995's first half to this year's same period.
Time deposits fell to 1.785 billion reais in the first half from 4.440 billion reais in the same period a year ago, according to Bamerindus' balance sheet.
"We lost time deposits because of the rumors. We lost essentially institutional clients like pension funds and multinationals," he said.  
Schulman recognized the liquidity troubles, but he said he expects liquidity to improve once Bamerindus gets a central bank loan backed by its own assets or it sells holdings.
"We are showing our situation to the central bank," he said, noting that Bamerindus has been in talks with the central bank.
Schulman said the bank has about 2.0 billion reais in government debt paper that could be sold or used to back the loan.  
Bamerindus has already raised about 500 million reais by selling stakes in steel mills CSN and Usiminas and home appliance maker Refripar.
Schulman denied, however, that Bamerindus was considering transferring control of the bank or selling parts of it as ways of bailing out the institution.
"We do not imagine selling parts of the bank and we have not held any talk with other banks (to transfer control)," he said.
Schulman also said Bamerindus Group's recent reorganization of assets will strenghten the bank.
Under the restructuring plan, completed at the end of June but only announced in July, Bamerindus' profitable insurance firm was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
The restructuring had little impact on the bank's first half results, but he noted "the effects will be stronger in the second half."
-- Sao Paulo newsroom, 55-11-2324411Private Brazilian bank Bamerindus is likely to post a 20 million real net profit in the first six months of the year, O Globo newspaper said.
Bamerindus is due to send its first half results to Brazil's Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) today and to publish the balance sheet Wednesday.
O Globo said Bamerindus' recent reorganization of assets allowed the bank to close the January-to-June period in the black.  
Last month, Bamerindus Group unveiled a restructuring plan under which Bamerindus' profitable insurance company was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
Despite the positive results, the Central Bank will require an injection of at least 1.0 billion reais in the bank to solve Bamerindus' liquidity troubles, O Globo said.
Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, has been in recent months plagued by rumors of liquidity problems and speculation that the bank would be sold.
Veja weekly magazine over the weekend said government officials were considering two alternatives for the bank: the sale to a private bank or a group of banks, or the intervention by the central bank followed by the use of PROER credits to encourage potential buyers.  
Veja also said private banks Bradesco, Banco Itau and Banco Safra would be studying the purchase of the bank.
Bamerindus press officials, however, denied any talks with other financial institutions to transfer the control of the bank.
-- Fatima Cristina, Sao Paulo newroom, 55-11-2324411Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit/loss	    (17.72)   vs  11.17
    Group shares (cents)     ( 4.92)   vs   3.10
    Turnover		     216.41    vs 313.12
    Interest expenses	    4.34    vs   1.06
    Pretax			 (17.92)   vs  11.48
    Tax				0.02    vs   0.31
    Extraordinaries	    (15.00)   vs   nil
    Minorities		     0.22    vs   nil
Note- Media company Aztech Systems Ltd said the extraordinary loss was incurred by a write-off of its investment in Reveal Computers Products Inc.
- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Medical appliance maker Guangdong Weida Group Co Ltd has received approval to list 13.875 million A shares in Shenzhen on August 23, the China Securities Bulletin reported on Tuesday.
The A shares were issued at 7.38 yuan per share in Jieyang city, southern Guangdong province, earlier this month, the bulletin quoted a company spokesman as saying.
Weida will list 1.125 million staff shares, offered at 1.60 yuan per share in 1994, along with the class A stock.
Weida's issue of the A stock has a projected price/earnings ratio of 12.51 times based on forecast net earnings per share of 0.59 yuan for 1996, the company said.
Following its recent A share offer, Weida's total share capital has been expanded to 58.875 million shares, including 30 million state shares, 13.875 million legal person shares and 1.125 million staff shares.
Weida plans to use the proceeds from the A share offer to expand its core business.
Weida said it has forecast after-tax profits of 34.95 million yuan for 1996, compared with 16.88 million yuan in 1995 and 11.32 million yuan in 1994.Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of S$ unless stated)
					    1996	 1995
    Net profit			  2.40  vs   1.79
    Group share (cents)	     1.60  vs   1.20
    Turnover			   26.13  vs  25.17
    Interest on borrowings	  1.05  vs   1.39
    Pretax				4.43  vs   3.40
    Tax				   2.03  vs   1.61
Note - Apollo Enterprises Ltd said it expects to maintain comparable results in the second-half of 1996.
-- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Year to June 30, 1996
		   (in millions of S$ unless stated)
    Net profit			   25.34  vs  28.39
    Final dividend		     15.00  vs  14.00
    Group shr (cts)		    42.5   vs  47.6
    Turnover			    224.51  vs 215.48
    Operating profit		   25.29  vs  27.31
    Other income			  9.20  vs  11.09
    Depreciation (expense)	    2.35  vs   2.01
    Pre-tax profit		     34.49  vs  38.40
    Tax				     9.11  vs   9.95
    Minorities		  (loss)  0.04  vs   0.05 (loss)
    Extraordinaries	   (gain)  0.14  vs   0.19 (loss)
    Dividend pay date:	 October 15, 1996
    Last day books open:     October 1, 1996
Note - Robinson & Co Ltd runs a chain of department stores.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore $ unless stated)
    Net profit		     2.44   vs   1.82
    Group share  (cents)	 5.37   vs   4.01
    Group share fully diluted  4.80   vs   3.76
    Operating revenue	   16.48   vs  15.16
    Interest expense	     7.99   vs   7.78
    Pre-tax profit		 3.46   vs   3.10
    Tax				1.02   vs   1.28
Note - Full name of company is Sing Investments & Finance Ltd.
-- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)Crude oil production from Australia's offshore 110,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) Cossack field has been cut back to around 90,000 bpd and could fall further for several weeks, industry sources said on Tuesday.
One scenario suggests production could drop to 50,000 bpd through the last three weeks of September, they said.
The field is not expected to be back at full production until October, the sources said.
They said the main problem behind the cut back was technical difficulties handling associated gas, which is normally exported into the regional gas grid.
Sources said the production has been cut back since last week but might have to be cut back sharply in order to deal with the gas problem and other more minor problems.
One source said the field has managed to deal with the problems for some time but it has now got to the point where corrective measures are needed.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
In mid July, Woodside said regular maintenance work would be carried out on the field in early August.
--Singapore Newsroom (+65 870 3081)Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the banking group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output		    5,994   vs 6,231
of which:
	General building			     4,064   vs 4,422
	Transport and quarrying		    549     vs 615
	Energy and environmental technology    554     vs 442
	Services					 777     vs 752
    Group domestic construction output	 3,729   vs 4,229
    Group foreign construction output	  2,215   vs 2,002
    Group orders in hand			   15,569  vs 13,534
	 of which:
	 General building			    9,412   vs 8,705
	 Transport and quarrying		   640     vs 626
	 Energy and environmental technology   2,297   vs 1,484
	 Services					3,220   vs 2,719
    Group incoming orders			  7,759   vs 7,939
    Group domestic incoming orders	     4,790   vs 4,961
    Group foreign incoming orders		2,969   vs 2,978
    Group new business			     7,742   vs 6,973
of which:
	General building			     4,662   vs 5,319
	Transport and quarrying		    547     vs 730
	Energy and environmental technology    1,371   vs 373
	Services					 1,162   vs 551
    Group domestic new business		  4,767   vs 4,671
    Group foreign new business		   2,955   vs 2,303
    Group workforce				  51,479  vs 47,471
    Group domestic workforce		     24,328  vs 25,202
    Group foreign workforce			27,151  vs 22,269
    Parent construction output		   1,845   vs 1,926
    Parent new business			    1,190   vs 2,086
    Parent orders in hand			  4,906   vs 4,761
    Parent workforce				 12,550  vs 10,991
--Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525Indian software firm Infosys Technologies topped the investment portfolio of Birla Advantage mutual fund in value terms as on June 30, 1996, the fund said in its quarterly report released on Tuesday.
The fund had 77,700 Infosys shares valued at 55.55 million rupees. Birla Advantage is the maiden fund launched by Birla Capital AMC Ltd, a joint venture of India's Aditya Birla Group and Capital Group of the U.S. in February 1995.
Unilever subsidiary Hindustan Lever stood second, with 49,100 shares valued at 40.33 million rupees. Asian Paints and Madras Cements came next.
Seventy-nine percent of Birla Advantage Fund portfolio consists of shares that reached their 52 week highs during the last three months," the report said.
The report quoted Credence, a research unit tracking performance of mutual funds, as saying that Birla Advantage Fund was the best performing fund for the year ending June 30, 1996 out of a total of 58 domestic funds tracked by it.
"The range of performance for the 58 funds is incredibly wide - from plus 21.11 percent to minus 46.86 percent. Further, only three funds could outperform the market over this period," the Birla Mutual report said.
It said the Indian stock market continued to look attractive and appeared poised for an upturn.
It said liquidity had improved significantly over the last few months both in terms of availability and cost of funds.
"The increased availability of money also means a decline in interest rates," it said.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
"It's a good set of figures...some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said. ($1=.6466 Pound)The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Imperial Chemical Industries Plc (ICI) said on Tuesday it had terminated joint venture discussions with the Yu Gang Company of Chongquing, China.
ICI's wholly owned Tioxide Group Limited signed a memorandum of understanding with the Chinese company in December 1995 covering the proposed establishment of a venture to produce titantium dioxide in China.
Tioxide and Yu Gang were, however, unable to reach agreement on the joint venture during their negotiations and mutually agreed not to proceed further, ICI said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday it was considering what to do with its excess capital, after it has completed its stock market flotation planned for June 1997.
Group finance director Roger Boyes told reporters at the society's interim results briefing the Halifax had a tier 1 capital ratio of 14.4 percent.
That would give the society a "reasonably substantial" surplus of capital after its flotation, he said.
He said options to be looked at included acquisitions, special or enhanced dividends and a share buy-back.
"It's quite wrong to say that Halifax is not aware of all the options," he said when it was suggested the society would be most likely to seek acquisitions.
Boyes said Halifax would also look at the best balance between its tier 1 and tier 2 capital, which he said was currently weighted 90 percent to 10.
He said this was expensive, hinting at further issurance of the subordinated debt, which makes up tier 2 capital.
Halifax said it issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113A British electricity consumer watchdog called for more competition in the generation market on Tuesday and said that the country's biggest generator, National Power, should be broken up.
The Chairmen's Group of independent consumer watchdog the Electricity Consumers' Committee also told a news conference that it would be "appalled" if competition in the electricity supply market were delayed beyond the April 1, 1998, deadline.
But it added that generation costs represented more than 50 percent of electricity prices and achieving competition in the market was "a primary goal" for driving consumer prices down.  
Ken Prior, acting group chairman, said he was very concerned that the Pool wholesale electricity market was heavily dominated by National Power and its smaller peer PowerGen. Publishing the group's second annual report, Prior said the generators had made cost savings of about 40 percent but consumers had felt none of the benefits.
"We want competition in generation...We believe National Power...should be broken up," Prior said, adding that the group wants to see the pool "properly representative" of market participants.
"It's all a bit cozy, it seems to us," Prior said.  
The group said it had made a number of recommendations to industry regulator Stephen Littlechild to boost competition, including calling for an independent testing inspectorate to test plant availability. The group also wants to remove payments to plant that is not being used.
Prior said there was no incentive currently to bring down prices, because electricity suppliers could pass on higher generation costs to customers.
Despite the generators' sale of a substantial amount of plant to conglomerate Hanson's Eastern Group electricity unit, there was not enough competition, he said.  
"The Pool governance needs changing to ensure that wider interests are represented," the group said, adding that a Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry may be necessary.
Meanwhile, the Chairmen's Group is focussing on 1998 and lobbying to help ensure that 25 million consumers will be able to shop around for electricity.
On Monday, the country's biggest electricity supplier Eastern Group confirmed that the consensus opinion among the 14 suppliers was for a phased-in competition in the supply market, possibly over 18 months.  
But although Eastern said computer systems would be in place to allow customers a free choice of supplier, the consumer watchdog accused some companies of dragging their feet over preparations for 1998.
The Chairmen's Group, which represents each of the 14 regions in England, Wales and Scotland that have privatised electricity suppliers, said it wanted to indentify the laggards.
"We want a flourishing electricity industry and a fair deal for consumers," Prior said, adding that competition would force suppliers to set up more efficient and sophisticated networks that would bring prices down.  
But he added: "In terms of preparation (for 1998), there seems to be a six month gap between the leaders and laggards."
The chairmen's group wants to finger the laggards with a questionnaire it has prepared. It will then meet Littlechild in September to discuss how to ensure competition stays on track.
Prior said he believed it would be new market entrants, such as supermarkets, that would lead the way in a free electricity supply market. "It is the new entrants we think that will drive it," he said.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Standard and Poor's said on Tuesday it had assigned its AA minus claims-paying ability rating across the operating entities of the new Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
"At the same time, Standard & Poor's removes the ratings of Royal Insurance Holdings Plc and Sun Alliance Group Plc and units from CreditWatch where they were placed May 3, 1996 with negative implications," the agency said in a statement.  
S&P said the ratings reflected:
-- the strengthened business position of the group in the difficult UK market, and a better spread of activities;
-- potentially improved and more stable operating performance primarily through lower expense levels but also through more diverse sources of earnings, provided the under-performance of the U.S. operation is addressed. The full benefits of the merger will become apparent in 1998 and beyond;
-- very good capitalisation - the merger has achieved a strongly capitalized group without the need for additional leverage.  
"Offsetting this to a degree is the initial disruption to activities that can be expected over the next two years as the new operating structure is implemented," S&P said.
"Management will need to keep close control of the integration process whilst continuing to focus on the longer term strategic direction of the new company."
-- International Bonds Unit +44 171 542 8682P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.Pacific Bell, a unit of Pacific Telesis Group, said it had been unable to negotiate an agreement with AT&T Corp to interconnect the companies' networks.
In a statement late on Monday, Pacific Bell said AT&T was expected to file a request early this week with the California Public Utilities Commission for arbitration proceedings in order to reach an agreement.
"We've been trying very hard over the past months to reach agreement on the terms and conditions for interconnecting our networks," said Liz Fetter, president of Pacific Bell's Industry Markets Group. "While we've made progress on many of the issues, several significant ones remain unresolved."
Pacific Bell is negotiating under guidelines issued by the utilities panel for opening up its statewide network to competitors certified to provide local phone service in California.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610The Asia Pacific Resources Internatitonal Holdings Ltd, also known as the APRIL Group, said on Monday its second-quarter results were hurt by lower world prices for pulp and rayon fiber.
The Singapore-based company posted a net loss of $0.14 per share compared to a net profit of $0.11 per share the same period last year. Net sales for the quarter dropped 26 percent to $95.7 million.
The company said the average realized price of blended pulp dropped 59 percent and rayon fell 26 percent compared to last year.
But the company's finance director, Berry Kwock, said he is encouraged by the recovery in pulp prices over the last two months and the improvements in its Riaupulp unit's performance.
"We are also very pleased with the ease with which Indorayon can switch between dissolving pulp and paper pulp production as this allows us to maximize sales and earnings by taking into account market pricing trends," he said.
Higher interest charges in the second quarter also affected the company's profits. The higher charges came from long-term debt obligations incurred during the year.
APRIL Group said it expects the interest costs to be reduced in the second half of the year because of the ongoing conversion to U.S. dollar-denominated obligations.
The APRIL Group, a pan-Asian pulp and rayon fiber producer, said its projects in China are expected to start up in the latter half of 1998.-- Merrill Lynch said it cut its rating on Vesta Insurance Group Inc to near-term neutral from accumulate and kept its long-term rating at buy.
-- Further details were not immediately available.Westinghouse Electric Corp and CBS Entertainment said Tuesday they had created a new entertainment and information channel called "Eye On People".  
Westinghouse and CBS said the new channel, to be launched March 31 will focus on contemporary and historical people who are in and out of headline news.
They said the channel will call on the programming and production resources of CBS News, CBS Sports, CBS Entertainment, EYEMARK Entertainment, the CBS Owned Television stations and CBS Television Network affiliated stations, as well as the CBS and Group W archives.
Westinghouse and CBS said they had also formed a program alliance with cable programmer Discovery Communications Inc for production of program series.
They said Group W Satellite Communications would offer the channel exclusively to multichannel distributors.
They said they will transmit the channel via a digitally compressed channel on Galaxy 7, transponder 9 with Group W Network Services handling production and satellite distribution services.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Chadmoore Wireless Group Inc.
				    Financial Highlights
				  For the Three Months Ended
					     June 30,
				     1996			1995
 Revenues		   $ 643,538		     $   --
 Net (loss)	     (1,421,152)		 ( 727,247)
 Net (loss) per share     ( 0.14)		    ( 0.15)
Weighted average
number of common
   shares outstanding  10,294,494		  5,014,553
				   For the Six Months Ended
					     June 30,
				     1996			1995
 Revenues		   $ 843,961		     $   --
 Net (loss)	     (2,088,570)	     ( 1,238,150)
 Net (loss) per share     ( 0.22)		    ( 0.26)
Weighted average
number of common
   shares outstanding   9,700,120		  4,750,715
				  Balance Sheet Data
				   Jun 30, 1996	  Dec 31, 1995
				 (unaudited)
 Current Assets		$  3,225,595	   $ 1,368,649
 Total Assets		    43,491,752	     5,341,495
 Long Term Debt		   5,309,741	     1,090,188
Total Shareholders'
   Equity			  36,544,205	     3,037,626Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they have signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in the UK or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.  
Fleet will provide US Dollar accounts and cash management services to the US subsidiaries and offices of UK-headquartered companies.  Fleet currently markets US cash management services directly to UK companies from its office in London.
"This agreement is a milestone in making global banking services more readily available, for our customers," said Fleet Financial Group President and Chief Executive Terrence Murray. "It goes beyond existing banking alliances between American and European banks by giving Fleet and NatWest customers access to a full range of international banking services including extensive branch networks in the US, UK and Ireland."
NatWest Chief Executive Bernard Horn said believes the banks' "combined strengths in market knowledge, product technology and customer service will ensure that our customers are provided with an unrivaled product. We can now offer our customers a wider and more sophisticated range of services in the US than previously was available."
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in the UK and is the second largest retail bank in the UK with over 2,000 branches.PaineWebber Group Inc said on Tuesday that Donald Cacciapaglia has joined the firm as managing director and chief operating officer of the investment banking division.
Cacciapaglia, who will serve on the division's management committee, will be responsible for the client coverage process, recruiting, professional development and training, private client liaison, research liaison, strategic planning and investment grade debt new business.
Cacciapaglia joins PaineWebber from CS First Boston, a unit of CS Holding. At CS First Boston, he was chief operating officer of the short and intermediate fixed income trading group.
Before that, he was with Merrill Lynch & Co Inc for 18 years (corrects the number of years from 10).
At PaineWebber, Cacciapaglia will report to Brian Barefoot, director of investment banking.Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the Banking Group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.A new study by Dataquest, a unit of Gartner Group Inc, shows that the worldwide market for consumer electronics semiconductors reached $24.6 billion in 1995.
Prior-year figures were not immediately available.
Dataquest said Toshiba Corp led the market, with nearly $3.3 billion in sale, and a 13.4 percent market share.
Toshiba was followed by NEC Corp, with $2.7 billion in sales and an 11.0 percent market share, and by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd with $1.9 billion in sales and a 7.7 percent market shares.
--New York Newsdesk, 212/859-1610Marvel Entertainment Group Inc said Tuesday it had named David Schreff as president and chief operating officer.
A spokesman for Marvel said Schreff, who is to begin work with the group in September, is the first to fill the positions.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group pre-tax profit			1,178   vs 1,492
    Group sales				   21,803  vs 21,375
Of which
     Energy					 4,885   vs 4,678
     Chemicals				    2,091   vs 1,877
     Packaging				    5,879   vs 6,277
     Logistics				    8,891   vs 8,823
     Other					  246     vs 191
    Group fixed asset investment	    792     vs 913
    Group investment in participations    178     vs 1,485
    Group workforce			     82,874 vs 84,939
NOTE - Full name of German chemicals and energy group is VIAG AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output	    5,900    vs 6,208
	of which: percentage abroad	37.3 pct vs 32.1 pct
    Group orders in hand		   15,600   vs 13,857
    Group incoming orders		  7,800    vs 7,934
    Group workforce			  51,479   vs 47,471
    Group fixed asset investments	179	vs 219
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Philipp Holzmann AG. Holzmann said it orders in hand totalled 13.5 billion marks at end-1995.Six months to June 30, 1996
			   (million punts unless stated)
 Shr (pence)		15.36		  vs 13.30
 Dividend (pence)	 2.396		  vs n/a
 Pretax profit	    8.93		   vs 7.92
 Turnover		   133.06		 vs 119.58
 Tax			  2.52 charge	  vs 2.37 charge
 Net taxed		  6.41		   vs 5.55
 Pay date		   Oct 9
 Div registration date  Sept 4
 Ex-div date		Aug 27
NOTE - Print and packaging firm Clondalkin Group Plc said on Tuesday that it was well placed to maintain progress in all its activities.
Clondalkin said the first-half profit increase reflected organic growth of seven percent due to volume and margin improvements.  
The group said its Irish operations continued to improve with profit growth evenly spread between printing and packaging.
In Britain, profits more than doubled because of the inclusion of the Boxes Group, acquired in September 1995, and because of strong organic growth in the print operations.
Strong profit improvement in the Netherlands counteracted a profit decline in Switzerland where market conditions remain difficult, Clondalkin said. In the U.S., the packaging operations reported the strongest increase.
Clondalkin said it is well balanced in terms of profit mix by currency and exchange rate movements did not materially affect reported earnings per share.
-- Dublin Newsroom +353 1 676 9779Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group pre-tax result		  217 vs 190
NOTE - Full name of Danish airline holding company is SAS Danmark A/S. The company, half-owned by the Danish state, represents Denmark's two-sevenths stake in Scandinavian Airlines System.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33-969650Baloise Insurance Group said it had raised its majority stake in Italian insurer Norditalia Assicurazioni S.p.A. from 77 percent to 95 percent.
A Baloise statement said the public offering launched six weeks ago for a complete takeover of Norditalia had consolidated its position at the Italian unit and given it more leeway for strategic action.
-- Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30.
		    (millions of Swedish crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax result	 1,047	vs    1,036
Group operating revenue   17.442	vs   17,740
Operating expenses	  15,569	vs   15,301
Operating result
before depreciation	  1,873	vs    2,439
Operating result after
		depreciation   1,006	vs    1,600
Net Financial items	    -97	vs     -185
Exchange rate differences     69	vs     -438
Result after fin. items	978	vs	977
NOTE - Full name of carrier is Scandinavian Airlines System, H  which is owned jointly by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark and private investors.
--Oslo newsroom, +47 22 42 50 41BONN, Aug 20, Reuter - Calendar 1995
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group premium income		4,300    vs   3,800
	 Of which
Herold Leben (life insurance)
    Premium income			3,695    vs   3,329
    Sums insured			 79,650    vs   73,630
    New business			  1,146    vs   1,133
    Returns on capital		  1,378    vs   1,184
Herold Allgemeine (non-life)
    Gross premiums			522.1    vs    505.5
NOTE - Full name of the German insurer is Deutscher Herold, the insurance arm of Deutsche Bank AG. The company said that 1994 figures for life insurance business were calculated by adding numbers for Deutsche Bank's former separate life insurance business and Herold Leben's. Figures for 1995 were based on their merged operations.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group pre-tax result	     646.9  vs 1,035
 Group net result		   584.4  vs 1,032
 Securities and forex results     -81  vs   307
 Losses and bad debt provisions  -105  vs   305
Balance end-June 1996  336.5 billion vs 325.5 bln end-June 1995
NOTE - Full name of Denmark's second biggest mortgage credit firm is Realkredit Danmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a full year 1996 pre-tax profit of around 1.3 billion crowns. --Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *
 Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )
 Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945Soon-to-be-floated Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday it was appointing Hartley Sutcliffe finance director and intended to appoint Charles Mackay non-executive deputy chairman.
Mackay will take up his position when the group is admitted on the London Stock Exchange, Thistle -- currently 70 percent owned by New Zealand's Brierley Investments Ltd -- noted in its results statement.  
Sutcliffe joined the Thistle Group as treasurer in 1991.
Earlier, the group reported a first half profit -- before tax and an 87.8 million stg write-down charge -- of 24.1 million stg, 88.3 percent higher than last time.
Thistle said an external valuation of the company's properties had been carried out, valuing the portfolio at 1.69 billion stg. The valuation identified a deficit of 204.6 million stg compared with the values shown in the company's books.
The exceptional item reflected a reduction in value of certain properties below cost, and the balance of 116.8 million stg was deducted from a revaluation reserve, the group said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Command Petroleum Ltd said a water injection well drilled in the Ravva contract area offshore India has indicated additional reserves of oil in the Ravva field.
It said the RD-3 well, the first of five down-flank water injection wells to be drilled in the next two years, intersected a greater than predicted oil column of a gross 210 feet.
There was 172 feet of net oil pay with an average porosity of 24 percent, it said.
The oil-water contact was 43 feet below the previously interpreted field contact and the top of the main reservoir was 89 feet higher than the pre-drill prognosis, it said.  
"Repeat Formation Testing (RFT) indicates that the two main (M30 and M20) reservoirs in the well are in communication with each other and with the equivalent reservoir units in the three producing wells drilled along the crest of the structure," Command said.
This suggested that oil will be efficiently recovered from the reservoir, it said.
A previously undrilled three metre net oil sand with an average porosity of 25 percent was also encountered by the well about 548 feet above the main reservoir.
This sand was not included in the net/gross figures.  
During the field's life, the oil encountered in the main reservoir in RD-3 will be accessed by, and produced through, the crestal wells, Command said.
RD-3 will, therefore, be completed as a dual oil producer-water injector and will be used as an oil producer in the short term, prior to the need for pressure maintenance.
The next well to be drilled is the RE-1 oil development well, it said.
Command said preparations were underway on Tuesday to complete RD-3 after it reached total depth of 7461 feet.  
RD-3 was drilled at inclinations up to 45 degrees although all depths and thicknesses quoted in its report have been corrected to true vertical depths, Command said.
The bottom hole location of RD-3 is about 1100 metres southwest of the RD platform, it added.
Participating interests in Ravva are India's state-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp Ltd 40 percent, Command Petroleum (India) Pty Ltd (operator) 22.5 percent, Videocon Group unit Videocon Petroleum Ltd 25 percent and Marubeni Corp unit Ravva Oil (Singapore) Pte Ltd 12.5 percent.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Shares in the Australian Stock Exchange's banking and insurance sectors continued their climb on Tuesday as investors bought in ahead of a federal budget widely tipped to be a boon for interest rate sensitive stocks.
By midesssion, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) and Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) had all topped six month highs.
NAB shares reached A$12.70, ANZ shares climbed to A$6.70 while CBA shares reached A$11.11 before profit takers emerged.Melbourne broker J.B. Were and Son has issued a long term buy recommendation for News Corp Ltd preferred stock, saying its current discount to ordinary stock was excessive and should narrow in the long term.
The report, prepared by Were analyst Craig Connelly, argues that the discount should narrow as the market becomes more comfortable with the issue of limited voting securities.
"We expect investors to decide to place their faith in a management team, and then look for which security will offer the best value entry into the stock. The limited voting securities offer a premium yield with a higher dividend," the report said.  
At 12.15 p.m. (0215 GMT), News Corp preferred shares were at A$5.35, a discount of A$1.14 or 17.6 percent to the ordinary stock which was trading at A$6.49. The preferred stock pays a minimum 20 percent premium relative to the ordinary dividend.
News Corp has about 977 million preferred shares on issue compared to 1.967 billion ordinary shares.
The company has recently proposed to issue 164 million preferred shares to convert the special dividend shares of its News International subsidiary and to issue about 468 million preferred shares to fund its acquisition of New World Communications Group Inc.  
The Were report said the discount of the preferred stock to ordinary stock had widened considerably since these proposed transactions were announced due to a view that a diminishing proportion of shareholders had control of a growing assset base.
"We believe that this argument ignores the current ownership structure of News Corp - essentially, an investment in News Corp is an investment in Mr Murdoch, his management team, the company he has built and continues to build," the report said.  
In the short term, Were said it expected the discount would remain wide until the market factored out stock 'overhang' from New World Communications shareholders, and focused on long term value being created by acqusitions and business development.
The report also said the issue of additional preferred shares would increase the liquidity of this class of security.
"Liquidity appears to be the issue of prime concern in the U.S. where non-voting securities which are more liquid than the ordinary shares begin to trade at a premium," the report said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800The Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Group has opened its ninth hotel in China, in Changchun, the capital of northeastern Jilin province, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The new five-star hotel cost $81 million and has 450 rooms, Xinhua said.
The group would open three more hotels in China in 1997 and would have 25,000 hotel rooms and $971 million in investment by 2000, Xinhua quoted company officials as saying.
Meanwhile, booming southern Guangdong province has a glut of hotel space, with barely enough travellers to fill just 210 of its more than 830 hotels, the China Daily said.Six months to June 30, 1996
	   (in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit			    14.69  vs  12.84
    Group shr (cents)		    8.87  vs  10.39
    Turnover			     511.04  vs 402.77
    Operating profit		    16.97  vs  15.56
    Interest (expense)		   2.24  vs   0.66
    Depreciation			   1.50  vs   1.18
    Amortization			   1.30  vs   1.28
    Profits from associates	    7.26  vs   3.16
    Pre-tax profit			16.97  vs  15.56
    Tax					3.89  vs   2.69
    Minorities		    (loss) 0.61  vs   0.07 (loss)
    Extraordinaries	     (gain) 0.18  vs   0.44 (gain)
Note - Acer Computer International Ltd is a unit of Taiwanese computer giant Acer Inc.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)China on Tuesday suspended trading of Shandong Bohai Group Co on suspicion of violating accounting rules, the first such case since the Shanghai stock market reopened in 1990, Shanghai Securities News said.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a preliminary investigation of the firm's 1996 interim report, found entries that contravened China's accounting regulations, the paper quoted a CSRC spokesman as saying.
Chinese stock analysts said Shandong Baohai, a domestic A share company, was the first Shanghai-listed firm to be suspended from trading for violation of accounting rules in the five-year history of China's modern stock market.
They said the violations indicated that a handful of Chinese listed firms, which have performed poorly in the past few years, had resorted to irregularities to please investors.
If the trend was not checked, it would damage the image of the nation's stock market, analysts said.
The CSRC spokesman said the amounts involved in Shandong Bohai's case were large.
The commission is investigating further. Trading of the firm's shares will be suspended until the investigation is completed, he said. CSRC officials in Beijing reached by telephone declined to give details.
Shanghai brokers said the problem was linked to the firm's re-evaluation of its fixed assets in its interim report.
The report said a re-evaluation of the company's fixed assets, including a major piece of land, added 185.32 million yuan ($22.33 million) to its capital.
"This apparently violated both Chinese and international accounting regulations," said a veteran accountant with a major Chinese accouting house. "The regulations say that, if a company continues to operate, all its capital should be booked on the basis of historical value."
The report said that, based on re-valued assets, the firm planned to issue a 10-for-10 bonus issue to all shareholders.
Shandong Bohai, which mainly produces and sells material for the energy sector, performed poorly in 1995, with net profit falling by a year-on-year 38.24 percent.
"The company's performance was very poor last year," said a senior stock analyst with a major Chinese brokerage. "It tried to make very generous interim returns to attract investors."  
Analysts said the firm had been punished in the past after it was found to have speculated in trading its own shares.
"If such irregularities are not properly checked, they will greatly damage the image of China's stock market and listed firms," said an analyst with a Chinese business consultancy.
A Shangdong Bohai spokesman declined to comment. "We will cooperate with the CSRC investigation," he said. "After it reaches a conclusion, we will make an announcement."
The last quoted price for the A share of Shandong Bohai was 13.00 yuan at the close of trading last Friday. There was no trading of the stock on Monday.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 57.50		62.00		62.05
 Current	    500    million	   1.00	     974    million
 Net		  400    million	 800    million	 767    million
NOTE - Totoku Electric Co Ltd makes electronic machinery and parts.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		203.00	     203.00	     192.99
 Current	    600    million	   1.00	     419    million
 Net		  320    million	 400    million	 100    million
NOTE - Zenchiku Co Ltd is a leading meat trading company.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 97.00		99.00		95.87
 Current		2.41		 3.81		 3.29
 Net		  970    million	   1.77		 1.66
NOTE - Cleanup Corp is a comprehensive domestic products manufacturer.China's top motorcycle maker on Tuesday announced disappointing first-half results, blaming weak sales, fakes and ferocious competition.
China Jialing Industrial Group reported first-half net profit of 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which increased the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.
Analysts said supply, boosted by fakes and smuggled cycles, was in excess of domestic demand.
Official figures published on Sunday show that China's motorcycle output in the first half was 4.25 million units, up 22 percent on the same 1995 period, with sales of only 3.8 million, up 12 percent.
By the end of June, national stocks had reached 680,000, up 200 percent from a year earlier, and equivalent to one month's production, the figures showed.
In the first half of 1996, Jialing produced 605,623 motorcycles, ranking first in China, the company said.
An analyst with a foreign brokerage said that because of the intense competition Jialing and other major makers had cut prices in both January and April, which had hurt profits.
"Production in China has outstripped demand," he said. "The government wants to consolidate the industry into a few large conglomerates but local governments do not agree, preferring to protecting their own small-scale manufacturers."
"Another factor is widespread smuggling of motorcycles, especially of larger models, in coastal areas and production of fake Jialings," he said. "The market is chaotic and hard for the government to control. Motorcycles are seen as profitable."
While the market potential in rural areas remains large, many major Chinese cities which already suffer from traffic congestion restricting the number of motorcycles, limiting demand.
The company said another factor to hit its earnings this year was the high income tax rate of 33 percent that it had to pay when many of its competitors were paying a lower rate.
"Many of them pay just 15 percent," said a Jialing spokeswoman by telephone from its headquarters in the southwest city of Chongqing. "Our competitors get the lower rate from local governments or from being in special economic zones."
"We have repeatedly asked the central government for a tax reduction but have had no reply so far," she said.
The spokeswoman said it was hard for the government to control the sale and volume of fakes, which include many products and not only motorcycles. "Consumers, companies and the government must work together to solve this problem and it cannot be settled in a short time," she said.
She said sales would pick up in the second half of 1996, with the first part of the year traditionally being a dull season, but declined to give full-year forecasts.
($1=8.3 yuan)Period to June 30, 1996
		    (in million ringgit unless stated)
    Net profit	    1,074.00    vs	  863.53
    Group shr (cents)	94	 vs	   76
    Pre-tax profit	1,801.01    vs	1,475.43
    Minorities   less	46.14    vs less    27.50
    Dividend (percent)     22.0     vs	   20.0
    Customer deposits  59,316.84    vs     52,388.96
    Loans and advances 56,462.78    vs     48,939.50
    Total assets	 94,202.51    vs     81,779.25
    Shareholder funds   5,601.25    vs	4,698.74
Note: Company's full name is Malayan Banking Bhd.Top Chinese motorcycle maker China Jialing Industrial Group reported on Tuesday that first-half net profit was 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement, the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which put up the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.Hyundai Precision and Industries Co Ltd, a unit of South Korea's Hyundai Group, said on Tuesday it won a $18 million order from Japan's Mitsubish Heavy Industries Ltd to make 28 overhead cranes.
Hyundai said in a statement it is scheduled to deliver the cranes to Mitsubish's steel mill in Thailand by August 1997.
-- Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Indonesia's PT Pan Indonesia Bank (Bank Panin) said it posted a net profit of 45.82 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against 30.22 billion rupiah in the same period last year.  
Six months to June 30, 1996
(in billion rupiah unless stated)
    Net interest income		  96.86 vs 78.63
    Other operating income	     38.91 vs 22.26
    Pre-tax profit			 62.07 vs 37.28
    Net profit			     45.82 vs 30.22
    Retained earnings		   174.56 vs 120.96
    Earnings per share (in rupiah)     152 vs 126
Note:The results were unaudited. PT Pan Indonesia Bank, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Panin Group, is a medium-sized bank.Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group operating profit		   61	up 25 pct
    Group pre-tax profit		     61	vs 83
    Group sales				  1,818   vs 1,633
NOTE - Full name of the German haircare products manufacturer is Wella AG. The company said its pre-tax profit of 83 million marks in the first half of 1995 was boosted by 35 million marks due to the release of provisions not required.  
    Domestic sales			     574     vs 533
    Sales abroad				 1,244   vs 1,100
    Fixed asset investments		  49	vs 50
    Employees on June 30		     16,100  vs 16,400
NOTE - Wella said the first six months had been very succesful both in terms of sales and profits. It said its sales growth of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than three percent. It said it had not included non-core business in the first-half accounts becuase of restructuring measures. On a comparable sales basis, sales would have risen by 12.2 percent.
Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market. That exceeded a planned sales rise of five percent. Its sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations.
Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches in that business, Wella said.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax & extra items result 1,264 vs 1,158  
 Group pre-tax profit		1,275 vs  1,077
 Net interest and fees income    4,430 vs  4,319
 Securities and forex results    354   vs    347
 Result of financial items	4,939  vs  4,836
 Losses and bad debt provisions   548  vs    584
NOTE - Full name of second largest Danish banking group is Unidanmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a lower H2 pre-tax & extraordinary items profit than in H1 1996. The result was above analyst expectations.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650Calendar 1995
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group net profit			   51.5    vs 110.4
    Group premium income		     4,300   vs 3,800
Of which
    Life insurance premiums		 3,700    vs 3,300
    Dividend				    20 pct   vs 20 pct
NOTE - Full name of the insurance subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG is Deutscher Herold. The net profit figure refers to the group holding company. The company said the 20 percent dividend represents a payout of 7.2 million marks.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525First six months to June 30, 1996.
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
						     1996	    1995
    Group operating			    26.1    vs    n.a.
    Group pre-tax loss			  3.1    vs    n.a.
    Group net				    50.2    vs    n.a.
    Group cash flow			   142.0    vs    n.a.
NOTE - Full company name is Austria Mikro Systeme International AG. 1995 figures for the group unavailable as AMS' two acquisitions -- SAMES and Thesys -- were realised in the second half of 1995.
    Group sales				1,056.9   vs    n.a.
    Group extraordinary expenses	     0.518 vs    n.a.
    Group tax payments			  18.921 vs    n.a.
    Parent operating			   129.27  vs  110.36
    Parent pre-tax			     128.35  vs  102.15
    Parent net				   102.33  vs  102.15
    Parent cash flow			   186.1   vs   183.6
    Parent sales				 710.4   vs   814.0
    Parent extraordinary expenses	    0.518 vs	0
    Parent tax payments			 25.5   vs	0
    Group incoming orders		    762.4   vs    n.a.
    Group orders in hand		     737.0   vs    n.a.
    Group investment			   240.0   vs    n.a.
    Group depreciation			 190.6   vs    n.a.
    Group workforce			  1,448     vs    n.a.
    Parent incoming orders		   565.3   vs 1,063.3
    Parent orders in hand		    402.4   vs   998.0
    Parent investment			   82.6   vs   138.2
    Parent depreciation			 80.4   vs    80
    Parent workforce			    698    vs   708Six months to June 30, 1996
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
							  1996	   1995
    Group operating				  434   vs     421
    Group pre-tax				    371   vs     386
    Group net (excluding minority interests) 243   vs     216
    Group cash flow				  631   vs     620
NOTE - Full company name is Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG.
    Group sales				    5,295   vs   6,491
    Group depreciation			     384   vs     391
    Group investment				 191   vs     286
    Group workforce				4,811   vs   4,722
    Group balance sheet total		 11,855   vs  12,413
-- Vienna Newsroom, 43-1-531-12 274Six months to June 30, 1996.
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
						     1996	   1995
    Group earnings before interest     1,514.9	1,607.5
and tax (EBIT)
    Group pre-tax			    1,562.6  vs  1,502.0
    Group net				  1,238.6  vs  1,238.7
    Group cash flow (bln ats)		  1.49 vs     n.a.
NOTE - Analysts had forecast an EBIT for the first half of 1.25-1.7 billion schillings.
    Group sales incl oil tax	    47,048.7  vs 45,788.2
    Group sales excl oil tax	    37,346.1  vs 37,416.6
    Group depreciation		     1,712.7  vs  2,065.0
    Group personnel costs		  3,409.9  vs  3,716.0
    Group workforce			  8,663    vs  9,659
    Group balance sheet total (bln ats)  65.01	up 5 pct
    E&P sales excl oil tax (bln ats)	2.77  vs     2.70
    E&P EBIT (bln ats)			  0.11  vs    (0.12)
    Gas sales excl oil tax (bln ats)	5.36  vs     5.53
    Gas EBIT (bln ats)			  0.91  vs     0.90
    Refining sales excl oil tax (bln)    19.87  vs    19.45
    Refining EBIT (bln ats)		   0.10  vs     0.42
    Marketing excl oil tax (bln ats)	9.68  vs     7.81
    Marketing EBIT (bln ats)		  0.02  vs    (0.06)
    Chemicals sales excl oil tax (bln)    2.63  vs     4.27
    Chemicals EBIT (bln ats)		  0.34  vs     0.29
    Plastics sales excl oil tax (bln)     4.38  vs     4.83
    Plastics EBIT (bln ats)		   0.24  vs     0.41
NOTE - Workforce and balance sheet total compared with December 31, 1995.
-- Janet McBride, Vienna Newsroom 43-1-531 12 254Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to slow by more than half, but the industry will still expand at a rate most industries only dream about,according to Compaq Computer Corp.
Sales growth in Europe by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set last year, said Compaq, the world's biggest maker of personal computers.
Compaq Wednesday began selling its Presario line of computers in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.
It hopes the Presarios, which sell for $2,000 to $5,000, will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for PCs.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year, growth was 35 percent," Compaq's Consumer Group vice president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month, the Context research company said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3.58 million.
Compaq was the market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp.'s 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the '90s. About 35 percent of American households now have computers; the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often "crash" and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are easier to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.Shares in British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc hit new year highs on Wednesday as traders cited positive press comment to the pay television operator's 66 percent rise in full-year profits on Tuesday.
The shares were trading at 547 pence, up 12 pence, just below the new high at 548p, which beat the previous peak of 541p.  
The satellite broadcaster said it profits rose to 257.4 million stg and its trumover grew by 30 percent to top 1.0 billion stg for the first time.
Analysts at BZW repeated its buy advice, pointing amongst other things to BSkyB's positive comments on its joint venture with Leo Kirch in Germany.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Hyundai Motor Co Ltd, the flagship of Hyundai Group, said on Wednesday it plans to enter the mini-car market in late 1997.
"We plan to start selling our mini-cars in late 1997 at the earliest," said a spokesman for Hyundai, South Korea's largest car maker.
He said the company would set up new automobile lines in its Ulsan complex capable of producing 120,000 to 150,000 mini-cars annually. The ultra sub-compact cars would have an engine capacity of 800 cc and 1,000 cc, he said.
"We plan to export the 1,000 cc mini-cars to Southeast Asian and European countries, while the 800 cc units would be sold domestically," the spokesman said.
"Domestic demand for mid- to large-sized sedans is seen on the down trend, while that for smaller cars is increasing," he said. "So we have high expectation for the mini-car market."
South Korea's mini-car market is currently dominated by Daewoo Motor's "Tico".
--Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Metromedia International Group Inc said on Wednesday it agreed a joint venture with state-owned Golden Cellular Corp of China to provide fixed wireless telephone systems.
The joint venture is called Mei Ti-Jinfeng and recently received a Chinese license to provide local telephones for homes and businesses supported by wireless technology. The license also covers software and maintenance.
Metromedia uses the Multispan technology developed by DSC Communications Corp which allows customers to be connected without the cost of laying cables.
Only 4.7 percent of Chinese households have a telephone and the government is planning to add 25 million to the network every year for 15 years, Metromedia said.
No financial details were given but a source close to Metromedia said the investment for the project could total tens of millions of dollars. -- Nick Louth, New York Newsroom 212 859 1712Ten powerful high-technology companies are investing in a $100 million venture fund to support startups developing Internet software using Java as a progamming language, The Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday.
International Business Machines Corp, Tele-Communications Inc, Sun Microsystems Inc, Compaq Computer Corp, U S West Communications Group, Netscape Communications Corp and Oracle Corp are among the investors in the Java Fund. It will be administered by venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers.
The widespread endorsement for the Java Fund, which also includes investments from Cisco Systems Inc, Comcast Corp and Japan's Itochu Corp, marks an unprecedented rate of adoption for a single technology across a wide range of high-tech industries, the newspaper said.
"Nothing like this level of adoption and endorsement has ever happened in computing," said John Doerr, a partner at Kleiner Perkins.
Beyond financial investment, companies are also planning on putting their weight behind new technologies in return for getting early access to any breakthroughs.
Java has been hailed as a revolutionary technology because of its ability to create multimedia computer programs that work on all operating systems. Many industry experts believe that may help put an end to Microsoft Corp's dominance of the software industry, which has long relied on the Windows platform that Microsoft controls.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Steelmakers laid off hundreds of thousands of workers in the 1970s and '80s to get lean and mean, but the cuts have industry officials wondering where the next generation of leaders will come from.
What's more, the job cuts and plant closings have left the industry with an image that fails to attract many bright young professionals, industry officials and analysts said.
"I think there is a real shortage of fresh blood in the industry," said Chuck Bradford, a long-time industry analyst at UBS Securities. "It seems to me the industry hasn't been recruiting at all."
Steelmakers did virtually no recruiting during their years of downsizing.
Many top steel executives have worked in the industry for 20 years or more. And though Big Steel's lacklustre image has kept many top business school graduates away, the executives maintain that American steelmakers are efficient, profitable and offer opportunity to young people.
"The U.S. steel industry is very competitive on a global basis... The opportunities are there, but the industry is doing a poor job of projecting itself on campuses," said David Roderick, former chairman of USX Corp., the parent of U.S. Steel Group, the nation's largest steelmaker.
Roderick said the industry will have to do more recruiting in the next decade as the current string of top managers, now in their 50s and 60s, retires. "The industry will find that the string will run out," he said.
Kathryn Shaw, associate professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said the industry's image dissuades many students, even those in Pittsburgh, from considering working for a steel producer. They prefer to seek work considered more glamorous.
"The students I see here want to go work on Wall Street," she said. "It's hard for students to show interest in an industry they don't see as growing.
"Plus the hiring demand just isn't there from the steel companies. They simply don't need young people... they've got enough bodies."
Some experts said not all students were turned off by steel's image, but rather unaware of opportunities offered by the nation's steelmakers.
"We've had no contact with steel companies," said Craig Marks, visiting professor of business and engineering at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Michigan is one of the country's largest steel-producing states.
"Our students are not predisposed toward any particular industry ... they just want a challenging opportunity where they can use their background. I think all the steel companies would need to do is make a pitch."
Some steel executives said that students have shown interest in the industry.
"In the past 10 years, there has not been a year that we haven't hired at U.S. Steel," said Richard Schinagl, U.S. Steel's recruiting manager.
Schinagl said most students who go to work for U.S. Steel have technical or engineering degrees, because steelmaking has become a high-technology business.
He said U.S. Steel also recruits business graduates and has not found it difficult attracting students at the top of their class.
"Seniors today are pretty astute," he said. "We find the industry has a pretty positive image."
Schinagl noted that U.S. Steel President Paul Wilhelm and USX Chairman Tom Usher both have engineering degrees.
"Over the recent past, our leaders have been engineering graduates," he said.Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo
reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with a
year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Pre-tax profit			    3,856 vs   5,332
 Sales					78,059 vs  85,134
 Operating profit			  2,281 vs   4,024
The separate operating units of Volvo report operating
profit excluding non-recurring items for the six months to June
30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				    187  vs   1,580
 Volvo Truck				1,078  vs   2,942
 Volvo Bus				    134  vs     164
 Volvo Construction equipment	   651  vs	 -
 Volvo Penta Group			   57  vs     127
 Volvo Aero Group			    90  vs	91
Other subsidiaries/eliminations
					 CHARGE 131  vs	 9 CREDIT
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	  2,066  vs   4,913
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			2,281  vs   5,561
Sales for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with the
same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				   39,828 vs 42,729
 Volvo Truck				 23,112 vs 25,744
 Volvo Bus				    4,213 vs  3,559
 Volvo Construction Equipment	   6,695 vs	-
 Volvo Penta				  2,002 vs  2,067
 Volvo Aero				   1,962 vs  1,716
Other subsidiaries and eliminations
					 CHARGE 1,546 vs    552 CHARGE
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	   76,266 vs 75,263
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			 78,059 vs 85,134
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017The separate operating units of Swedish vehicle manufacturer AB Volvo report operating profit excluding non-recurring items for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				    187  vs   1,580
 Volvo Truck				1,078  vs   2,942
 Volvo Bus				    134  vs     164
 Volvo Construction equipment	   651  vs	 -
 Volvo Penta Group			   57  vs     127
 Volvo Aero Group			    90  vs	91
Other subsidiaries/eliminations
					 CHARGE 131  vs	 9 CREDIT
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	  2,066  vs   4,913
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			2,281  vs   5,561
NOTE -- AB Volvo is a Swedish vehicle manufacturer.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017CS Holding, Switzerland's second biggest banking group, on Wednesday reported a 26 percent jump in net profit in first-half 1996 but this was lower than earnings growth by its Swiss rivals.
The company, parent to flagship bank Credit Suisse and U.S.-based investment banking group CS First Boston, said group net profit before minority interests grew to 941 million francs ($783 million) from 749 million a year earlier.
It said its reorganisation, including cutting 5,000 jobs, was expected to lead to a sustained improvement in performance in future and was cautiously optimistic for the full 1996 year.
"CS Holding expects the full-year results for 1996 to be better than those for 1995, although provisions for credit risks will remain high and the situation on the financial markets may affect the second-half performance," it said.
At midday, the group's registered shares had slipped by 1.25 francs from the previous 130 franc close in reaction to the figures.
Analysts said the results were below expectations and showed the need for a huge restructuring programme announced by CS last month. But some added that CS Holding could have greater potential than its rivals.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively higher at CS Holding than at the others," analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Banks said.
One stock market dealer said the market was mainly disappointed that CS had made no announcement about selling its stakes in Elektrowatt or private bank Bank Leu. The results were also at the lower end of expectations, he added.
Return on equity rose to 10.5 percent from 9.0 and earnings per share to 4.40 francs from 3.74.
With the half-year reporting season over, analysts agreed that Swiss Bank Corp was the top choice for growth and profits after integrating investment banking arm SG Warburg and launching its own reorganisation in May.
"We have the three big Swiss banks as "hold" recommendations but SBC is the favourite if you have to be in that sector," said John Leonard at Salomon Bros.
CS Holding's net profit growth of 26 percent compared with 36 percent at Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) and 33 percent at the biggest Swiss bank group, Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS).
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," Zurich Cantonal Bank's Bieri said.
CS unveiled plans in July to tighten its mix of bank and financial activities into four core business areas under a new name, Credit Suisse Group, from January 1, 1997.
Some analysts said the quality of CS profits was already increasing, adding that the group had greater potential than rivals UBS and SBC because it was restructuring later.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research said it was positive that commission income, a steadier source of earnings than market trading, now made up 38 percent of all earnings, up from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential (savings and profit growth) because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
($1=1.2022 Swiss Franc)High-tech venture capital powerhouse Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said Wednesday it has created a $100 million fund to invest in start-up firms developing businesses based on the hot new Java technology for the World Wide Web.
Kleiner Perkins -- which since its 1972 founding has created a web of companies similar to Japan's networks of closely affiliated businesses -- named 10 major technology companies, including International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp. ), and Netscape Communications Corp., as investors in the new fund. It said the Java Fund was closed to any new investment.
Kevin Compton, a Kleiner Perkins general partner who will be a fund manager, said the fund aims to improve small firms' access to corporate investors at a time when new product development has been shortened considerably by the frenzy over the Web.
"These companies have to live in Web weeks now, and instead of spending a year, or who knows how long, it takes to get corporate partners, they've got them on day one," he said.
Java developer Sun Microsystems Inc., itself a company launched with support from Kleiner Perkins, is the largest investor in the fund after Kleiner Perkins' institutional investors as a group.
"We could have just let the market take care of this because there's a lot of money in the market right now," Eric Schmidt, chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, said in an interview.
But, he noted, the fund aims to build on the broad enthusiasm over Java, which has been licensed by a wide range of software developers ranging from Redmond, Wash.-based software giant Microsoft Corp. to the Taiwanese government.
"There's a certain benefit that's hard to quantify of having people with a common shared goal, with a clear name and a clear objective," investing together, he said.
Kleiner Perkins said its corporate partners in the fund include leaders in networking, personal computers, Internet software, database software and communications.
In addition to IBM, Compaq and Netscape, the corporate investors in the fund include Cisco Systems Inc., the cable TV companies Comcast Corp. and Tele-Communications Inc. , Japan's Itochu Corp, Oracle Corp., and US West Media Group, Kleiner Perkins said.
Schmidt said the fund, believed to be unique in its concentration on a particular technology, would compare to setting up a venture fund in the late 1970s to collectively finance early growth of the personal computer industry.
The fund is set up to run for 10 years, a relatively long time, and will aim to make an average investment of around $3 million, implying some 25 to 30 investments overall.
The first three Java Fund investments are start-up companies Active Software, Calico Technology and Marimba.
Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the World Wide Web multimedia portion of the Internet. Calico Technology is working on software to enable sales representatives to quote and order products and services.
Palo Alto, Calif.-based Marimba, which was founded in February by four key members of the original Java development team, plans to provide technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
Java was designed at Sun to be a programming language that makes it possible for software using it to run on nearly all the computer systems in the world, making it ideal for the global Internet network of computer networks.
Nearly 50 corporations have agreed to license the Java technology, and Sun Microsystems Chief Executive Scott McNealy estimated that 100 million computers and other devices will be able to use Java by the end of 1997.
Sun has set up a separate division, JavaSoft, to promote Java-based development to expand its reach into new areas, including the huge task of linking older computers to the Internet using Java.
Another area of innovation is expected to be in filtering and ultimately reducing data to make it more usable, along with improving group communications across networks used on the Internet and corporate networks known as intranets.
"What I will absolutely tell you that, over the course of the lifetime of this fund, there will be some set of investments that will be extraordinarily important, none of which any of us can identify right now," Schmidt said.Statement of Earnings
					    Three Months Ended June 30,
							     1996	1995
 Revenue						 $10,721   $9,385
 Pretax Earnings (Loss)				(190)	865
 Net Earnings (Loss)				   (169)	539
 Earnings (Loss) per Share of Common Stock    (0.04)     0.12
Weighted Average Number of Common and
  Common Equivalent Shares Outstanding	   4,323    4,316
(In thousands, except per share data)
NOTE: The full company name is Group 1 Software Inc.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610PaineWebber Inc's Private Client Group said on Wednesday it added Lowe's Cos to its 30-stock focus list.
The focus list consists of stocks rated buy or attractive by the firm's research department, PaineWebber said.
Lowe's, a home improvement retailer, reported 1996 revenues of $7.08 billion and earnings of $1.41 per share. For 1997, PaineWebber estimates earnings at $1.65 per share.With many equities still recovering from July's sell-off, one class of stocks, real estate investment trusts (REITs), has staged a tortoise-like turnaround as investors increasingly opt for slow and steady.
As a group, REITs sharply underperformed the market last year as investors poured cash into volatile technology stocks.
"When you are in a very hot bull market and you see things like technology stocks which are very immature and have very high-growth patterns, REITs are just not as attractive," said Catherine Creswell, real estate analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons.  
With investors playing defense, whether out of fear of a downturn or reluctance to ride out sideways volatility, real estate has emerged as a mutual fund industry bright spot.
According to Mutual Fund Trim Tabs, which tracks mutual fund flows, inflows to Fidelity Investments' $828 million Real Estate Portfolio amounted to $4 million in May, $27 million in June and $33 million in July.
The increases in July were especially noteworthy because "they came at a time when inflows to most funds dipped," said Carl Wittnebert, the publication's managing editor.  
Vanguard Group's recently launched Specialized/REIT Index Fund has also grown substantially, with assets jumping to $143.9 million from $120 million at the end of July and under $80 million at the end of June, Wittnebert said.
This in  a category which, according to data provided by Standard & Poor's, offered an 18.31 percent total return in 1995, less than half the 37.57 percent surge of the S&P 500.
Over the first seven months of 1996, however, REITs have risen 8.06 percent versus 5.23 percent for the S&P 500.  
"We divide REITs into eight categories and all eight of them are outperforming the market right now," said Ed Nicoski, technical analyst at Piper Jaffray. "They really started to come on in mid-June."
Utilities have traditionally served as a haven because of steady income streams and rich payouts. However, that industry is undergoing profound change and several companies have cut dividends as they brace for state-mandated competition.
In contrast, REIT yields have kept to their long-term trend of steady yields.  
"Over time, the average REIT yields have traded in a very narrow band, typically between six and nine percent," said Creswell. "In addition, you tend to get dividend growth of between five and seven percent."
Tax laws call for REITs to derive most of their income from real estate investments, be they debt or equity, and to distribute virtually all net taxable income as dividends. In return, REITs pay no income taxes at the corporate level.American Airlines said on Wednesday it supported USAir Group bid to serve London Heathrow's Airport, saying it was consistent with the "open skies" aviation agreement being discussed by the United States and Britain.  
USAir filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation to serve London's Heathrow Airport from Boston, Charlotte, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
The carrier cited the need for competition in the U.S.-U.K. market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.
USAir, British Airway's existing trans-Atlantic partner, previously filed a lawsuit against the proposed alliance, alleging the deal would monopolize air travel between the U.S. and Britain and undermine USAir's own agreement with BA.  
BA holds a 24.6 percent stake in USAir.
USAir cannot serve Heathrow until the current Anglo-U.S. aviation treaty is liberalized.
American said it remains optimistic that a new "open skies" agreement will be reached, which will make possible new services such as those proposed by USAir.
American Airlines said it expects some Heathrow slots will be available to U.S. carriers under a the new aviation pact, but there may be costs involved.
In 1991, American said it was required to invest more than $440 million to secure limited access to Heathrow.
"While we agree that additional U.S. carriers should be authorized to serve Heathrow, those who seek to fly there must recognize that realization of their aspirations will inevitably be a function of the costs and practicalities with which we and others have had to contend," said Arnold Grossman, American's vice president of international affairs.
The "open skies" aviation talks are set to resume next week in Washington.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610The expectation that President Clinton will approve the regulation of tobacco as a drug by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will heap more weight on tobacco stocks, which are already blighted by lawsuits.
Industry analysts, reacting to the news that broke from Washington late Wednesday, said however that the stock market is more likely to take its cue more from another lawsuit expected to be turned over to an Indiana jury this week.
"I think the stocks probably won't react to this as much as it will to Rogers," said Ronald Morrow at Rodman & Renshaw, referring to Richard Rogers, the plaintiff in the case.  
Dean Witter analyst David Adelman agreed and said an injunction is very likely. "They (tobacco companies) have reasonably good grounds to prevail," he said.
Tobacco shares had been under pressure all day Wednesday after the industry's major companies were named in three more suits filed by state attorneys general seeking recovery of Medicaid funds used to treat smoking-related injuries.
On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Philip Morris Cos Inc, the world's biggest cigarette maker, fell 3-7/8 to close at 87-5/8. RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, settled at 25-3/8, down 1-1/8.  
Loews Corp, owner of Lorillard Tobacco Co, lost 1-1/4 to close at 76-5/8, while UST Inc, parent of U.S. Tobacco Co, lost 7/8 to settle at 30-7/8.
Unfavorable news about tobacco - part and parcel of tobacco investment almost from the beginning - was once automatically assumed to be an opportunity to buy the share cheaper. These days, the tidal wave of lawsuits and government oversight has begun to rattle the investment community.
The most recent broadside came August 9, when a Florida jury awarded $750,000 to Grady Carter and his wife for damages they suffered as smokers.  
Although the sum was a drop in the bucket to a $45 billion-a-year industry, it represented only the second time an award was granted by a jury.
If that verdict is upheld on appeal, it would be the first time a tobacco company has been found liable for its product, something that has eluded attorneys trying to establish class-action suits against the industry.  
"Over the last two years, it has paid investors to buy (tobacco stocks) on the dips. It seems that, going forward, that's going to be harder to do," said Tom Carpenter, a managing director and chief economist at ASB Capital Management Inc in Washington, D.C.
"It's the lawsuits coming at you from all angles. It's the general sense that there's no long-term future for these stocks," Carpenter said, adding, "The declines are deeper and the rebounds are narrower than they were. I just think things are different than they were a year ago."
For traders, the key number is 85. That is the Philip Morris stock price considered by most traders to be the key level of "support" for tobacco stocks on the whole.
That price is the level from which Philip Morris emerged in 1993 on the way to a larger rally, and the price where the stock rested following a heavy sell-off linked to the mass settlement offer by Brooke Group Ltd's Liggett Group Inc last spring.
"There's no telling how investors will value tobacco stocks from here on in. It's certainly not an area where an investor can jump in," said Alan Ackerman, a Fahnestock & Co market strategist.
--C. Thompson  (212) 859-1725Insignia Financial Group Inc said Wednesday it named James Aston chief financial officer and promoted Ronald Uretta to the new post of chief operating officer.  
Aston previously served as a member of Insignia's Office of the Chairman, the real estate services company said.
In addition to Uretta's new repsonsibilities, he will continue to serve as treasurer, the company said.
Uretta will oversee corporate accounting, human resources, corporate facilities management, and information technology.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610Coastal Physician Group Inc said Wednesday it had named President Joseph Piemont to its board of directors.
Coastal also said the board had authorized Piemont and Steven Scott, director and owner of about 30 percent of the company, to recommend an investment banking firm to help it find potential buyers.  
It said the firm would replace Morgan Stanley, which no longer served as lead financial adviser for the company.
Coastal said it was looking to maximize shareholder value by selling assets or the entire company, among other things.
It reported a net loss of $24.9 million or $1.04 per share for the second quarter of 1996, compared with a net loss of $10.5 million or $0.44 per share for the same period last year.
Coastal said Piemont was replacing a member of the board who resigned in easly August.
It also said shareholders would elect two other directors for the nine-member board at their annual meeting September 27.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Temple-Inland Forest Products Corp and Canada's Re-Con Building Products Inc said in a joint statement on Wednesday that they formed a venture to build and operate a cement fiberboard plant south of Dallas/Fort Worth.
The plant is expected to cost approximately $60 million to $70 million, a Temple-Inland spokesman said.
Ownership of the venture is split evenly between Temple-Inland and Re-Con Building, the spokesman said. Re-Con Building is a unit of The Clarke Group, Temple-Inland said.
The plant will be able to produce approximately 240 million square feet per year of cement fiberboard siding and related products and will employ about 90 people, Temple-Inland said.Raleigh Capital Associates L.P. said Wednesday it opposed a debt restructuring by Arvida/JMB Partners L.P. involving a proposed $160 million loan from Starwood Capital Group L.P.
Instead, the Jericho, N.Y.,-based firm said it offered to obtain comparable financing at better terms or make the loan itself to the Boca Raton, Fla., real estate developer.
After that, Arvida/JMB unitholders may choose to accept a cash out of $500 a unit, less any amount distributed as a result of the borrowing, the firm said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
"We can obtain financing at more favorable terms" said Michael Ashner, president of Raleigh GP Corp, a general partner of Raleigh Capital, in a telephone interview.
Gary Nickele, legal counsel of Arvida/JMB's based in Chicago, said he had not seen the proposal and had no immediate comment.
Raleigh currently holds a 19.7 percent stake or 79,701 units in Arvida/JMB, which develops real estate in south Florida. It obtained the bulk of the stake in a $461 a unit tender offer that expired August 1. It offered to buy a 45 percent stake or up to 180,000 units and was joined in the bid by affiliates of investors Carl Icahn and Leon Black.  
In the SEC filing, Raleigh said it presented its "strenuous objection" to terms of the Starwood financing in a meeting with Arvida/JMB officials on August 15. Starwood is a diversified real estate investment firm based in Greenwich, Conn., that owns a 18.6 percent stake in Starwood Lodging Trust, according to a Starwood spokesman.
Under the financing, BSS Capital II, L.L.C., an affiliate of Starwood Capital, would provide the loan, proceeds of which will be used to retire Arvida/JMB's existing debt and make a payout to unitholders of approximately $350 a unit.  
"In our view, the proposed loan terms are excessive relative to present market pricing for this type of facility," Raleigh said. It then offered its best efforts to obtain "superior financing proposals" to benefit Arvida/JMB and its unitholders.
It also said that to ensure that Arvida/JMB does not risk being worse off by rejecting the Starwood proposal should Raleigh fail to get better financing, Raleigh itself will provide "substantially identical financing" to the Starwood proposal.
Arvida/JMB, in a response to the alternate financing offer, said on August 19 that although no agreement had been reached on the Starwood financing, it had agreed not to pursue or negotiate any other offers for a specified period of time.
In July, Arvida/JMB said it had agreed to provide confidential information to two other suitors which were weighing possible bids for stakes in the firm.
---Gene Ramos, 202-898-8399Cahners Publishing Co said Wednesday it has purchased Television Asia and other entertainment publishing assets from Partners in Media, an independent publishing company based in Singapore.
Terms were not disclosed.
Television Asia is a monthly magazine for broadcasters throughout Asia. Cahners also received a 1997 option to buy Partners in Media's Asia Image, a publication covering Asia's production and post-production markets.
The unit will become part of Cahners' Publishing Group. Cahners is a division of Reed Elsevier.Spartech Corp said Wednesday its current backlog stands at a record level of more than $34.0 million, up 12 percent from a year ago.
Based on the backlog, Spartech, which makes thermoplastic materials and polymeric compounds, said it remains cautiously optimistic about the fiscal fourth quarter.
Earlier, Spartech reported earnings for the third quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share, up from $0.16 a year ago. For the first nine months of the year, it earned $0.55 a share, up from $0.45 a year ago.  
"Spartech Plastics, our extruded sheet and rollstock unit, continues to produce excellent results," Bradley Buechler, president, said in a statement. "Third quarter 1996 sales generated by this 11-plant group rose approximately 16 percent as compared to 1995, with solid gains also being recorded in operating earnings."
He added that sales within the merchant compounding group declined modestly during the quarter. Spartech Vy-Cal plastics, a calendered PVC film operation, recorded a strong gain in operating earnings as a result of excellent volume and more stability in the price of raw materials, Buechler said.
The company said the acquisition of the Hamelin Group remains on track, with closing expected on or about September 30. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings almost immediately, David Mueller, chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Richard Branson, founder and head of the sprawling Virgin Group, is locked in a standoff with local officials in Majorca over his plans to develop a luxury resort there, the Financial Times said.
Branson is seeking to build a 20 million stg complex on a 600 acre site on the island's mountainous northwest coast, with plans to convert a mansion into a 60-room hotel.
The dispute with the local village council is about plans to build 10 houses on the property. The village mayor, Antoni Mora, has said a new building code would allow no new construction in rural areas, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717British Airways said on Wednesday it was still considering the implications of the announcement today by estranged partner USAir Group that the U.S. domestic carrier has applied to fly its own services to London Heathrow.
BA noted that USAir's application is in anticipation of Britain and the U.S. agreeing an "open skies" trade pact, which would open up London Heathrow to USAir and other U.S. carriers.
"We welcome USAir's support for an open skies agreement ...and will now be considering the implications of the announcement on the wider alliance between BA and USAir," a senior company spokesman said.Liberty Life Association of Africa said it was "delighted" with interim results and believed it was on track to achieve further gains after adopting the new Financial Soundness Valuation accounting practice last year.
Announcing the results, chairman Donald Gordon said that, while it was not accurate to compare results with the previous half because of the change in the accounting practise:
"It does give an indication that we still feel we are on track on the financial soundness basis for our target 20 percent growth per annum - which is basically our target growth."
"I think we are on track and we are very delighted with our first half-year results," Gordon said.
Liberty Life's net taxed surplus attributable to shareholders jumped 57.9 percent to 667 cents per share from 422.5 cents per share previously.
Total new business written by the Liberty Life Group amounted to a record 2.297 million rand, representing a 26 percent increase over the 1.817 million rand recorded for the comparable period in 1995, he said.
He said Liberty Life would continue to maintain its standards by selling quality products.
"As far as Liberty Life is concerned we are maintaining our standards...and really we are not going to follow all the speculative approaches that some of our competitors are doing," he said. -- Charles Phahlane, Johannesburg newsroom, +27 11 482 1003Yr to June 30, 1996
		    (millions of rand unless stated)
    Shr (cts)			  84.1  vs 51.6
Final div (cts)  20.0 making 26.0  vs 16.0
    Attrib income		   101.01 vs 56.82
    Tax				  70.98 vs 46.69
    Interest earned		   8.75 vs  7.83
    Turnover			1,767.21 vs 1,439.24
Div payable: Oct 16
On register: Sept 13
Full name: Stellenbosch Farmers' Winery Group Ltd
NOTE: The company said it expected trading conditions to become more difficult in the year aheda but remained positive that growth would continue, albeit at a slower rate.
-- Cape Town newsroom, +27 21 252-238Mathomo Group Ltd said it was in talks which could have an in impact on its share price and urged shareholders to exercise caution in their dealings.
It gave no further details in a brief announcement.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Albania's national carrier Albanian Airlines will freeze its operations before the end of September because its hub airport will be undergoing renovation, a senior company official said on Wednesday.
"We are freezing the operations because the government will start the reconstruction of Tirana's Rinasi Airport runway," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters.
"Unfortunately there is only one runway at Rinasi and our company suffers most from the construction. We cannot work during the building process," he said.
The company's 150 employees would be on leave without pay during the "freeze", but the official guaranteed they would be able to return to their jobs when the airline resumed operations. He could not say when the work would be completed.
He repeated the company's denial of a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the airline was suspending flights because it was facing bankruptcy.
He said the airline planned to restart service after the renovation was completed, adding the company's board had convened this week to discuss "how to restart operations after the reconstruction".
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between the state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.After three failed attempts, receivers of Venezuela's bankrupt Aeropostal will take the airline company to the auction block for a fourth time on August 30.
"If none of the other creditors have any objections, the auction will be Friday next week," Servio Altuve, one of the airline's receivers, told a meeting of the board of creditors.  
A base price is yet to be set, but sources told Reuters it would be around $24 million, down from the last auction's $32 million base price.
Five groups of investors expressed interest in the airline during the creditors' meeting: England's World Aviation Group, the Venezuelan-U.S. consortium Alas; a consortium of former Aeropostal pilots and Delta Airlines executives; Venezuela's Zuliana de Aviacion; and the Venezuelan consortium Cavendes- Laser.
The airline's first auction attempt failed in July 1994 when the Venezuelan Investment Fund delcared void an an 80 percent public offering valued at $62 million.
The airline was decalred bankrupt and closed in September 1994.
-- Ana Isabel Martinez, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405New Zealand's Iddison Group Vietnam Ltd said on Thursday it had agreed with Vancouver-listed gold explorer Olympus Holdings to form a joint venture in Vietnam.
The companies will develop Iddison's Na Pai gold project in the Binh Gia District, Province of Lang Son.
Olympus will buy a right to earn a 51 percent interest in Iddison's mining subsidiary.  
Iddison said it negotiated a production sharing contract over the Na Pai prospect in November 1993 with the government owned Vietnam National Gem and Gold Corp and has been awaiting implementation of the new Vietnamese Mining Law prior to the undertaking significant exploration activities.
The Mining Law was enacted in March 1996 and takes effect in September 1996. As a result of the new law, interest has been renewed in Vietnam's mining potential, Iddison said.
The company's consultant geologist said there was potential for open pit mining. A reasonably detailed exploration programme was warranted to further evaluate the potential.  
Olympus agreed to spend US$1.6 million to earn a 51 percent interest in the Iddison mining subsidiary which holds the Na Pai interest.
Iddison will also be reimbursed US$100,000 and Olympus must spend a minimum of US150,000 prior to withdrawing.
Iddison has granted Olympus a first right of refusal over future mining projects developed by Iddison in Vietnam.
Iddison will also receive 200,000 post reconstruction vend-in shares in Olympus in terms of the Vancouver Stock Exchange Listing Requirements, 500,000 additional vend-in shares upon a bankable feasibility study being prepared and a further  
500,000 vend-in shares in the event that 500,000 ounces of gold are discovered on the property.
-- Wellington newsroom 64 4 4734 746The Bank of New Zealand said on Thursday it was arranger of a medium term note programme in the New Zealand market on behalf of General Motors Acceptance Corp (NZ) Ltd.
The dealer group consists of ANZ Banking Group (NZ) Ltd, ASB Bank Ltd, Bank of New Zealand, Citibank N.A. and Westpac Banking Corp.
The programme size is unlimited.  
Notes issued under the programme will have the support of the guarantee of the issuer's parent, General Motors Acceptance Corp New York, and have been assigned an A- rating by Standard and Poor's.
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746If China's economy continues its rapid growth, the mainland will replace Taiwan as the biggest market for Taiwan food giant President Enterprises, the head of its first joint venture in China said on Wednesday.
"If the mainland's development is normal...its politics are stable with no chaos, and the economy grows at nine-ten percent a year, our turnover in China will surpass that in Taiwan," said Tseng Wen-liang, general manager of Shanghai President Enterprises Livestock Food Company.
Tseng's venture, which produces feedgrain, was set up on July 1, 1992, with investment of $14 million. Its local Shanghai partner holds 11.5 percent, Japan's Mitsubishi Corp five percent, and President the balance.
Since then, President has become one of Taiwan's biggest investors in China, with $200 million invested in 15 companies producing biscuits, instant noodles, drinks and other food and industrial products, most sold to the Chinese market.
The massive sums Taiwan companies have poured into political rival China has recently begun raising questions in Taipei.
Last Wednesday Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui said the island needed to avoid over-dependency on investment in the mainland.
Two days later the giant Formosa Plastics Group said it was halting a $3-billion power plant project in China "to comply with government policy".
But Tseng said President was in China for the long haul.
"China welcomes our investments, the more the better," he said in an interview, adding that President was moving the head office of its China operations from Taiwan to Shanghai.
China says some 30,000 Taiwanese businessmen have poured more than $20 billion into China since the late 1980s, attracted by its cheap labour, abundant raw materials and access to the world's fastest growing market.
"We are a long-term investor and our investments are large. Some are profitable and some are just starting and not yet profitable," Tseng said. "We are not like those small investors who want a profit in one or two years."
On the wall of his office hangs a picture of China Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin meeting President's president Kao Ching-yuan in Beijing in 1993.
Tseng said his operations had not been affected by the sometimes erratic relations between Taipei and Beijing. "We have confidence and have not slowed the pace of our expansion."
Prior to Taiwan's first direct presidential election in March, China conducted large-scale military exercises in the Taiwan Straits that included missile tests.
The exercises were aimed at deterring Taiwan from seeking independence. Beijing regards Taiwan as a breakaway province. Both sides say they want unification but on different terms.
"If Taiwan-China relations are blocked, that is very bad for China," Tseng said. "The more economic exchanges (there) are, the better."
Tseng's plant aims to produce 90,000 tonnes of feedgrain in 1996, up from 60,000 in 1993 and rising to 120,000 in 2000, mostly for sale to farmers in the Shanghai area.
His main headaches have been how to get rid of excess workers and the erratic price of corn, his principal raw material, which reached a peak of 18,000 yuan ($2,170) a tonne in 1995 but now has fallen to about 15,000.
($1=8.3 yuan)Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit		    2.98  vs  2.30
    Group share (cents)	 5.0   vs  3.8
    Turnover		     59.70  vs 46.39
    Other income incl int     1.28  vs  0.72
    Interest expense	    0.04  vs  0.13
    Depreciation/amort	  2.10  vs  2.05
    Pre-tax profit		4.31  vs  3.49
    Profit from associates    0.19  vs  0.21 (loss)
    Loss from joint venture   0.21  vs   nil
    Tax			     1.32  vs  0.99
    Extraordinaries		nil  vs  0.35 (gain)
Note - ST Electronic & Engineering Ltd is an associate company of Singapore Technologies Industrial Corp.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)Tiger Medicals Ltd, a pharmaceutical company which makes Tiger brand ointments for relieving muscle pains, said on Wednesday it expects a better second half in 1996 and the full year to be satisfactory.
It said its net profit in the first half of the year fell two percent to Singapore $43.93 million.
Group turnover increased by nine percent on account of higher sales of Tigher brand products in Asia and trading margins were maintained, it said.
But it said the group did not derive any significant exchange gain in the period and so earnings declined marginally by two percent.
Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit		    3.93     vs   4.01
    Group share (cents)	 5.2	vs   5.3
    Turnover		     32.73     vs  30.05
    Interest expense	    0.19     vs   0.15
    Pretax profit		 5.65     vs   5.86
    Tax			     1.41     vs   1.48
    Minorities (loss)	   0.31     vs   0.38
Note - Tiger Medicals Ltd is a pharmaceutical company.
-- Singapore newsroom 65-8703080The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)Six months to June 30, 1996
		   (in millions of S$ unless stated)
    Net profit			    14.15  vs  23.20
    Group shr (cents)		    7.7   vs   12.7
    Group shr fully diluted (cents)  6.8   vs   10.8
    Turnover			     164.11  vs  151.81
    Interest (expense)		   5.51  vs    3.23
    Depreciation (expense)	     4.44  vs    2.70
    Profits from associates	    2.59  vs    3.31
    Pre-tax profit			25.68  vs   30.31
    Tax					7.45  vs    5.50
    Minorities (loss)		    3.80  vs    1.61
    Extraordinary items	 (gain) 7.54  vs    2.06 (loss)
Note - Haw Par Brothers International trades in pharmaceutical products.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)-- Hambrecht & Quist said it raised its earnings estimates for Pediatrix Medical Group Inc after the company's announcement that it acquired a seven-physician neonatal practice in West Palm Beach, Florida.
-- The investment firm raised 1996 earnings estimate to $0.89 a share from $0.87 and its 1997 estimate to $1.23 from $1.14.
-- Hambrecht & Quist repeated its buy rating on the stock.
-- Pediatrix shares closed up 1-1/4 at 46-3/4 on Wednesday.USAir Group Inc's pilots backed the carrier's iniatiative to acquire routes to London's Heathrow Airport.
USAir filed today with the U.S. Department of Transportation for routes to Heathrow from Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Boston, and Charlotte.
The carrier cited the need for competition in the United States-United Kingdom market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.  
"USAir's pilots strongly support our company's aggressive stance toward expanding the airline's international reach," said Captain Bob Gaudioso, chairman of the Air Line Pilots Assocaition Master Executive Council at USAir.
"USAir's proposed routes to London Heathrow will increase competition and directly benefit the consumers and communities we serve," Gaudioso said.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610Novell Inc, a unit of Xerox Corp and WhetStone Technologies have agreed to develop and market a product that would enable users of Novell's GroupWise e-mail system to view, edit and store images at their desktops, the companies said Wednesday.
The agreement will allow Novell's 6.5 million GroupWise users to leverage its e-mail, document management and workflow features for scanned and stored images, according to a news release.
The product, GroupWise Imaging, will integrate Novell's GroupWise 5 Universal Mail Box, Xerox Desktop Document Systems' scanning and imaging technology and WhetStone's production-imaging system.
WhetStone is an affiliate of UICI.NEW YORK, August 21 (LPC) - Leading lenders of syndicated loans to US borrowers, as compiled by Loan Pricing Corp:
Full credit for each deal is awarded to any bank with administrative, documentation or syndication agent title on that deal.
Rank  Lender		     Volume   # Deals     Market Share
				    ($bln)				(%)
1 Chase Manhattan		 165.7	235		   22
2 J.P. Morgan			94.5	 90		   13
3 BankAmerica Corp		 70.8	147		   10
4 Citicorp			   61.8	120		    8
5 NationsBank			54.4	162		    7
6 Bankers Trust		    26.8	 57		    4
7 First Chicago NBD		26.4	 82		    4
8 Bank of New York		 23.2	 45		    3
9 Union Bk Swtzrlnd		23.1	 17		    3
10 CS First Boston		 16.1	 32		    2
11 Bk Nova Scotia		  13.9	 28		    2
12 Toronto-Dominion		12.9	 28		    2
13 Bank of Boston		  11.3	 59		    2
14 ABN AMRO Bank		   10.4	 31		    1
15 Deutsche Morgan Grenfell    10.2	 23		    1
16 CIBC Wood Gundy		  9.4	 39		    1
17 NatWest Group		    7.3	 14		    1
18 Dai-Ichi Kangyo		  6.9	 16		    1
19 Bank of Montreal		 5.9	 13		    1
20 Royal Bank Canada		4.9	 15		    1
21 First Union			4.6	 30		    1
22 Barclays Bank Plc		4.2	 15		    1
23 PNC Bank			   4.0	 29		    1
24 Lehman Brothers		  3.8	 19		    1
25 Swiss Bank			 3.1	  8		    1
26 Indstrl Bank Japan	     3.0	 15		    1
27 Credit Lyonnais		  2.9	 13		    1
28 Commerzbank			2.7	  8		    1
29 Wells Fargo			2.7	 10		    1
30 SunTrust Banks		   2.6	 16		    1
--Michele Walsh, LPC Editorial, 212 489-5455By Neil Winton, Science and Technology Correspondent
Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to more than halve in 1996 but the industry will still be expanding at a rate which most sectors only dream about.
According to COMPAQ Computer Corp, the world's biggest producer of personal computers, sales growth in Europe this year by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set in 1995.
COMPAQ is launching its Presario range of products in Europe. It hopes the Presario will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for personal computers.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year growth was 35 percent," COMPAQ's Consumer Group vice-president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month research company CONTEXT said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3,580,040.
COMPAQ was market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp's 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth 1996 quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the nineties. About 35 percent of American households now have computers, while the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often crash and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are more intuitive to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.
COMPAQ hopes that its Presario range will make a dent in this new mass market.
"(Mass market) consumers are not willing to pick up a manual. We want our PCs to look more like hi-fi or TV sets," said Bouten.
He said the new range had direct access buttons which switch the PC across a range of uses.
"These easy access buttons mean that you can change the PC into a telephone with one touch, then to a fax, or a CD player and back to an Internet connection," Bouten said.
He declined to predict COMPAQ's sales projections.
The Presario range of home PCs sell for between $2,000 and $5,000 and are on sale from Wednesday in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.The UK's Energy Intensive Users Group (EIUG) said on Wednesday it was "extremely disappointed" by gas industry regulator Ofgas's final price proposals for British Gas unit TransCo.
"Energy intensive companies need internationally competitive energy prices to maintain their global market position," said EIUG chairman Ian Blakey in a statement.
"They have made an excessive contribution to British Gas' undeserved profitability since privatisation, and this control will continue to allow TransCo to charge over the odds for their monopoly pipeline".
EIUG combines 10 industry trade federations.
Ofgas published its final price proposals on Wednesday morning. According to Ofgas data, large firms -- defined as those using more than 300,260 therms a year -- now face an average annual gas bill of 567,000 stg.
TransCo's share of this, based on a notional transport route from Bacton in Norfolk to the West Midlands, is 25 percent.
In the first year of price controls, this bill will fall to 539,104 stg, a saving of 27,896 stg, if the Ofgas proposals are accepted. And in the year 2001/2002, the average bill for this group will be 511,835 stg, a saving from current levels of 55,165 stg, according to Ofgas.
While EIUG complains that the proposed cuts are too weak, British Gas argues that they are too draconian.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6412The U.K. government has approved plans to develop the North Sea Dauntless oil field, operator Amerada Hess Ltd said.
In a statement, Hess said Dauntless along with the nearby Durward field will begin production at the end of the first quarter 1997.
Hess said a "gross plateau production rate" for both fields of more than 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) is planned shortly after startup.
It said the fields will be Hess' "fastest ever stand alone development" and will use a floating production storage and offloading vessels permanently moored over the fields.
Other partners in the fields are Santa Fe Exploration (UK) Ltd, DSM Energy (UK) Ltd, British-Borneo Group and Seafield Resources Plc.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 6280The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *  Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )  Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945Shares in Zeneca Group climbed on Wednesday as talk of a possible bid for the company resurfaced, traders said.
But many were sceptical about whether the rumours contained any more substance than in the past.
"It's the same old stories and the same old names but the stock is so illiquid that people can move them up without anyone standing in the way," said one trader.
By 0804 GMT, the shares were up 16p at 15.19 stg, after earlier touching a record high of 15.23 stg. Trading volume was a modest 406,000.  
The weekend press reignited the bid speculation with Swiss company Roche mentioned as one possible predator.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8712Newly-floated Jarvis Hotels Plc said on Wednesday it had bought the hotel trading as Holiday Inn Gatwick East from Scandic Hotels Group for 8.62 million stg cash.
The company also said that room yield had grown 15 percent since March 31, 1996. "Forward commercial bookings for the Autumn reinforce this trend," it noted in the statement.  
The hotel at Gatwick airport has 151 bedrooms, conference facilities and a health and leisure club.
"The acquisition of this hotel demonstrates Jarvis's commitment to offer good value mid-market properties to our corporate and leisure clients and I am confident of its future trading," said chairman and chief executive John Jarvis.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Analysts' estimates of UK company results expected in week ending August 23 include -
COMPANY----------------PFT/DIV/EPS--CONSENSUS----RANGE-------PVS
WEDNESDAY, Aug 21
- No major companies reporting
THURSDAY, Aug 22
 Rentokil	   ** I    PFT	137.7	135.0-141.0   99.2
 Group Plc		    DIV	  1.48	   n/a	 1.23
FRIDAY, Aug 23
- No major companies reporting
NOTES -
** The Rentokil forecasts are pre exceptional and include
two months of profits from BET.
All profit figures are pretax, exclude exceptional items
unless otherwise stated and are in millions stg. Dividends
are total net and quoted as pence per share.
John Sutherland, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7945Morocco agreed to sell four mines, including a silver and copper mine, to the country's largest private conglomerate ONA Group for the equivalent of $75 million, Privatisation Minister Abderrahman Saaidi said.
"After we reached an agreement in principle...we decided to sell the four mines to the ONA Group at 648.8 million dirhams," Saaidi told Reuters on Wednesday.
Morocco launched an international tender in March to sell four mines -- silver, copper, fluorite, cobalt -- in one lot at a minimum price of 648.8 million dirhams.
It also offered to sell a foundry and a manganese mine in two separate tenders.
An official statement would be issued as soon as the "commission of transfer" put its stamp on the accord, Saaidi added.
The biggest mine is Societe Metallurgique d'Imiter (SMI), in which the state offered its majority 69 percent holding or 668,380 shares. It valued the stake at a minimum 448.9 million dirhams.
SMI, in southeast Morocco, has a capital of 96.7 million dirhams and produced 234 tonnes of silver in 1994 out of the country's total output of 259 tonnes.
Upline Securities stockbrokers said they had expected the ONA Group, which already has 31 percent of SMI and varying stakes in the other mines, to purchase the four mines.
"ONA's strategy in the mining sector culminated in 1992 when the company started operating the Guemassa mine, one of the world's lowest cost producing zinc mines. It merged all its mining participations in a holding company called Compagnie Miniere du Maroc, prior to the privatisation of the four mines," Anas Alami, an analyst at Upline Securities, said.
The other mines are copper producer Societe Miniere de Bou-Gaffer (SOMIFER), fluorite mining company Societe Anonyme d'Entreprise Miniere (SAMINE) and cobalt mine companie de Tifnout Tiranimine (CTT).
The state sold 40 percent of CTT, 35 percent of SAMINE and 34 percent of SOMIFER.
The latest available figures for 1994 showed that Morocco produced 36,010 tonnes of copper, of which SOMIFER accounted for 22,932 tonnes, and 85,000 tonnes of fluorite extracted entirely from the SAMINE mine. Manganese production was estimated at at 30,700 tonnes.
The mines were on a list of 114 state enterprises slated for privatisation by end 1998.
($1= 8.6 dirhams)
-- Ali Bouzerda, Rabat newsroom (212-7) 726518Hydro-Quebec said on Wednesday that it agreed with Nordion International Inc, a unit of MDS Health Group Ltd, for the production of cobalt 60 at its Gentilly-2 nuclear power station.
The five-year agreement, which runs from 1997 to 2002, provides for the production of between 15 and 20 million curies of cobalt 60 and will generate millions of dollars a year in revenues for Hydro-Quebec, the Quebec government-owned utility said.
A previous five-year agreement with Nordion (1985-1989) for the production of 18 million curries of cobalt 60 had not been renewed because of an oversupply situation. Cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt 59 that results from the irradiation of cobalt 59 in a nuclear reactor. The production of cobalt 60 has no effect on the output or safety of the reactor, Hydro-Quebec said.
Cobalt 60 is used for treating cancer, sterilizing medical and surgical products, preserving food, combating food-borne illness and decontaminating waste. Nordion supplies more than 80 percent of the global demand for cobalt 60, Hydro-Quebec said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434MDS Health Group Ltd said it signed agreements to acquire Nebraska-based Harris Laboratories Inc and Montreal-based Neo-Pharm Laboratories Inc, which will more than double MDS's revenue from pharmaceutical services to about C$100 million a year.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
MDS said the acquired companies will be integrated with the existing international contract research operations of MDS and managed through newly formed MDS Pharmaceuticals Service, with operations in Canada, Germany, China, Taiwan, the United States and Britain.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100-- PaineWebber raised its rating on Apria Healthcare Group Inc to buy from attractive, a source at the brokerage said.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
-- The stock was up 3/8 at 22-3/4.-- NatWest Securities said analyst Susan Donofrio initiated coverage of the airline industry.
-- "We are quite bullish on the airline industry, given strong underlying fundamentals," she said.
-- said industry capacity will grow 3.4 percent in 1996 and 2.9 percent in 1997.
-- U.S. airlines are in much better position now to raise fares compared to five years ago, and will help offset re-implementation of the 10 percent U.S. domestic passenger excise tax.
-- said airlines with greatest geographic diversity, especially AMR Corp, UAL Corp, and Delta Air Lines Inc, will be better equipped to handle effects of tax.
-- Delta gained 1/2 to 70-1/4, AMR rose 3/8 to 85, and UAL jumped 3/8 to 50-1/8.  
-- initiated coverage of Delta as buy, UAL as outperform, and USAir Group Inc as hold.
-- USAir was unchanged at 18-3/8.USAir Group Inc said on Wednesday it has filed with the Department of Transportation to serve London's Heathrow Airport from Boston, Charlotte, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
The airline cited the need for competition in the United States-United Kingdom market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.Sterling Chemicals Inc said Wednesday that its shareholders approved a merger with STX Acquisition Corp.
STX Acquisition Group was formed by a group of private investors led by The Sterling Group Inc and The Unicorn Group LLC.
Sterling Chemicals is being sold to STX Acquisition Group for $12 per share.
The merger, which was announced in April, is expected to close Wednesday.Brite Voice Systems Inc said it had won a $7 million contract to support a marketing campaign by Britain's Cellnet relaunch Callback, its intelligent messaging service.
Cellnet, a mobile telephone network jointly owned by British Telecommunications Plc and Securicor Group Plc, has purchased four additional Voice Services Director platforms for Callback. It is the largest single order ever for Brite.
Brite said the latest order represented another significant Cellnet investment in Brite's systems, for a total commitment of about $18.6 million during the past two years.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Reliance National and an African-American insurance executive said they plan to form a new property-casualty company to insure public utilities and corporations with commitments to buy products and services from minority-owned business enterprises.
Onyx Insurance Co will be capitalized at more than $5 million and will be jointly owned by Aaron Richardson as the majority common shareholder and Reliance National, a unit of Reliance Group Holdings Inc.
Reliance declined to disclose the size of its or Richardson's stake.  
Richardson, a 29-year veteran of the insurance industry, will serve as the chairman and chief executive of Onyx.
Upon approval by the California insurance department, Onyx Insurance Co will be the only African-American owned property-casualty insurance company in the United States.  
"There is clearly a great opportunity for a minority-owned company with sufficient capacity to participate in the insurance programs of public entities and large corporations," said Dennis Busti, chief executive of Reliance National.
Onyx will retain a small portion of each risk and reinsure the remainder through Reliance National, enabling Onyx to spread its risk and quickly establish a broad customer base.
"There are more than 2,600 property-casualty insurance companies in the United States with a combined net income of over $20 billion and assets of nearly $232 billion," Richardson said.
"Yet not one of these companies is African-American owned. The formation of Onyx Insurance Company is an important step toward African-American participation in the economic mainstream of America," he said.
Richardson is the founder and owner of ARISCO (Aaron Richardson Insurance Services Corp), a San Francisco-based property-casualty insurance brokerage that he formed in 1990.
-- New York newsdesk 212-859-1716Venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said on Wednesday it had closed the KPCB Java Fund, a $100 million venture capital fund focused on Java technology-based companies and related Internet, intranet, networking and communications companies.
In a statement, KPCB said corporate partners of the fund include industry leaders in internetworking, personal computers, enterprise computing, Internet software, database software, and communications.  
The companies are Cisco Systems Inc, Comcast Corp, Compaq Computer Corp, International Business Machines Corp, Japan's Itochu Corp Netscape Communications Corp, Oracle Corp, Sun Microsystems Inc, Tele-Communications Inc and U S West Media Group.
Developed by Sun Microsystems, Java is an open platform technology that enables distributed applications, interactivity, security, and platform independence over the Internet as well as intranets. Forty-seven corporations have licensed the technology.
The initial investments in the Java Fund are Active Software, Calico Technology, and Marimba.  Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the Web.
Calico Technology is a provider of interactive, enterprise configuration products.  Marimba provides technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610The Allen Group Inc said its subsidiary MARTA Technologies Inc had lost a contract with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for centralized automobile emissions testing in the Cincinnati area.
In a statement late on Tuesday, the company said the contract was worth about $11 million a year in revenues to MARTA.
MARTA had received a cancellation notice from the agency that was effective Aug 27. The agency also suspended MARTA's operations under the program effective on Wednesday.
The agency cited "alleged problems" for termination of the contract, Allen Group said.
"We strongly disagree with the state of Ohio's ... decision to cancel MARTA's contract," said Allen Group president and chief executive Robert Paul.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group net result			886 vs  839
 Group pre-tax result		1,326 vs  1,287
 Net interest and fees income    2,072 vs  1,802
 Securities and forex results	-26 vs  236
 Balance end-June 1996	   410,819 vs  398,682 end-June 1995
NOTE - Full name of biggest Danish mortgage credit group is Nykredit A/S. It forecast in a statement full year 1996 operating profit before tax, extraordinary items and portfolio/ currency results of up to DKK 2.2 billion. +45-33969652Year to Dec 31 (in millions of marks unless stated otherwise).
					1995	  1995	 1994
				    (revised)   (original)
 Group net loss		    1,134	  174	 308
 Group balance sheet loss	  952	  nil	 363
 Group loss carry-forward	  363	  363	  55
 Group sales			 3,285	3,288     2,695
 Group output			3,240	3,781     3,131
 Group other oper costs	  1,221	  791	 772
 Group financial result	     39 loss    39 loss   37 loss
 Group loss ord activities     1,187	  227	 276
 Group extraordinary profit	 61	   61	  24 loss
 Group reserve drawdown	    247	  239	 nil
 Group capital decrease	    298	  298	 nil
 Parent net loss		   1,169	  206	 358
 Parent balance sheet loss	 958	  nil	 358
 Parent loss carry-forward	 358	  358	 nil
 Parent drawdown from reserves   271	  266	 nil
 Parent capital decrease	   298	  298	 nil
 Parent other oper costs	   366	  193	 256
 Parent revenue from minorities   36	   46	  37
 Costs from lost absorption   1,090	   311	 277
 Parent financial result	   20	    20	  34
 Loss from ord. activities    1,236	   273	 331
 Parent extraordinary profit     70	    70	  24 loss
NOTE - Diesel engine maker Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG initially reported its 1995 results on April 23, but massive losses that came to light on May 24 led it to make major revisions.
-- Terence Gallagher, Bonn newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			   242     vs 198
NOTE - Full name of the German pharmaceuticals group is Merck KGaA. The profit figure is after tax and minority interests.  
    Group sales (already reported)	 3,444   vs 3,186
    Group capital investment		 235     vs 230
    Group research and development	 316     vs 277
    Group workforce			    28,564  up 1,050
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525The Warehouse said on Wednesday it would begin stocking AEG's range of appliances.
"We have been looking for some time to source a world class appliance range, that would offer our customers real value for money," managing director Stephen Tindall said.  
The managing director of New Zealand's distributor of AEG appliances, Kent Baigent of Kent Baigent Group, said he had also been searching for an innovative way to make their German engineered AEG Appliances more accessible to a wider range of New Zealand consumers.
New Zealand customers were increasingly demanding both higher quality and lower prices.
AEG as one of the foremost brands in Europe is well known for its high performance and quality, and the buying volumes will allow The Warehouse to supply AEG Appliances at the lowest prices ever offered by AEG in New Zealand.  
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746Woodside Petroleum Ltd said on Wednesday repair work would cause crude oil production from its Cossack offshore operation to be reduced by more than half to about 50,000 barrels a day for three weeks in September.  
The curtailment in output would result from the shutdown of the operation's gas export system, a Woodside spokesman told Reuters.
The spokesman said the operation had been mostly producing crude oil at or above its rated capacity of 115,000 barrels a day in recent weeks.
"We're looking at a three-week shut down of the gas export system in September... during that period oil production would probably have to be cutback to around 50,000 barrels a day," the spokesman said. "There is no reason why between now and September we can't maintain full production," he said.  
"We are at the moment capable of maintaining full production," he added
In order to prolong the life of a new dehydration component of the vessel, the repair work is required to rectify faults causing an excess moisture problem, the spokesman said.
"When you shut down the gas export system it means that we have to flare any gas that comes up associated with the oil. Because of limitations on the amount of gas we can flare, we have to reduce oil production accordingly," the spokesman said.  
The joint venture partners in the operation are currently reviewing the repair work, which is likely to occur in the last three weeks of September, the spokesman said.
"We could carry on with constant interuptions to the system, but it's much better to bite the bullet and try and rectify the problem completely," he said.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside, Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.  
Woodside shares were 2.0 cents up at A$7.72 by 1.25 p.m. (0325 GMT).
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Six months ending June 30 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
   Net profit			15.45  vs   22.26
   Group shares (cents)	  13.90  vs   20.00
   Dividend (cents)		 3.75  vs    7.50
    Turnover		    191.47     vs   153.66
    Other income		  4.98     vs     4.89
    Associates		    1.75     vs     3.47
    Pretax			 22.54     vs    30.41
    Tax			     5.97     vs     8.14
    Minorities (loss)	   1.12     vs     0.01
    Dividend register/pay -   Sept 23 / Oct 11
Note - Full name is Jurong Shipyard Ltd.
--Singapore newsroom (65-8703080)Showa Shell Sekiyu KK has started to study the possibility of selling oil products to the rest of Asia, a company spokesman said on Wednesday.
The leading Japanese oil refiner and distributor is owned 50 percent by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
The Shell group has traditionally asked its subsidiaries to concentrate their business in the country where the unit is located.
It revised that thinking this year when it divided its worldwide operations into four blocks, allowing a certain amount of freedom within each area.
The spokesman said Showa Shell has begun to look into the possibility of selling oil products, such as lubricants, in the growing Chinese market.
The study will be made jointly with the Shell group's Chinese arm.The plight of South Korea's home builder Kun Young Construction, seeking court receivership under a pile of debt, signals a further shakeout in the country's construction industry, analysts said on Wednesday.
"Bubbles in the housing industry are bursting so quickly while many contractors are unprepared," said Park Chan-ik, an analyst at Hyundai Securities.
"A downsizing of the industry looks inevitable."
He said many construction firms might be forced to shut down over the next few years unless they shifted to other business lines such as civil engineering, which had good prospects for growth on rising infrastructure investment.
"Some have already begun laying off workers. Others are selling off land for construction or pulling out of the housing sector," Park said.
A construction boom in the late 1980s and early 1990s, sparked by the government's plan to provide two million homes, mostly apartments, more than tripled the number of contractors to 3,000 in the past five years.  
After most of those apartments were completed, demand for new homes fell rapidly and many builders began suffering from falling profits.
Analysts said Kun Young, the nation's 21st largest contractor, was particularily vulnerable because of its over-expansion. It had to offer various perks to win redevelopment projects, a practice that also squeezed Woosung Construction out of business in January.
Woosung was taken over by the Hanil Group.
Kun Young now has more than 400 billion won ($489 million) stuck in construction of 14,000 apartments nationwide.
The company was dragged into many of the projects as it had to cover costs on fixed investment. But interest payments piled up while sales plummeted.
Kun Young defaulted on 1.26 billion won worth of promissory notes on Monday. It avoided bankruptcy by paying the debt by Tuesday, but filed for court receivership seeking protection from its creditors.
The company was near an agreement on Tuesday on a takeover by a consortium led by unlisted Dongsung Construction Co Ltd.  
But its prime lender, SEOULBANK, rejected the deal, casting doubt on Dongsung's ability to write off Kun Young's debts.
"We want a new owner who can fully cover all Kun Young's liabilities," said a official at the bank. "We are willing to endorse Kun Young's plan to seek court receivership rather than letting the company go bust."
He said bankruptcy was unthinkable because of severe damage to Kun Young's sub-contractors and customers.
SEOULBANK was expected to take over the management of Kun Young when the application was approved by the court until a buyer was found, he said.
Court receivership would spark hot competition for Kun Young because it would freeze all Kun Young's assets and debts, analysts said.
"One good thing about Kun Young is that it has more assets than debts," said a broker at Daishin Securities.
Kun Young's current liabilities amount to 550 billion won while assets are 800 billion won.
Analysts said the problems in the industry would linger as long as failing companies were not allowed to sink.  
"The tradition of bailing out failing companies impedes efficient allocation of funds," said Lee Hahn-ku, president of Daewoo Research Institute. "Such a policy does not fit the economy which is opening rapidly to foreign competition."Year to May 31, 1996
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 29.90		28.83
 Current	    525    mln	 540    mln
 Net		  260    mln	 278    mln
 EPS		   60.68 yen	  65.00 yen
NOTE - Otake Corp is a specialist trader of valves, pipe coupling and other piping materials.Year to May 31, 1996
 (Group)	(in billions of yen unless specified)
 Sales		 28.83		vs	   27.27
 Operating	  576    million    vs	  683    million
 Current	    540    million    vs	  489    million
 Net		  278    million    vs	  205    million
 EPS		   65.00 yen	  vs	   58.83 yen
NOTE - Otake Corp is a specialist trader of valves, pipe coupling and other piping materials.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		186.00	     180.00	     176.18
 Current	     10.00		 7.70		 6.68
 Net		    4.00		 3.30		 2.40
NOTE - Showa Aluminum Corp is an aluminium processor belonging to the Showa Denko KK group.Year to June 30, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 28.20		27.40
 Current	    970    mln	 943    mln
 Net		  460    mln	 329    mln
 EPS		   49.49 yen	  35.48 yen
NOTE - Ichimasa Kamaboko Co Ltd is a major marine paste product manufacturer.Year to June 30, 1996
 (Group)	(in billions of yen unless specified)
 Sales		 27.40		vs	   27.78
 Operating	    1.30		vs	    1.26
 Current	    943    million    vs	  633    million
 Net		  329    million    vs	  277    million
 EPS		   35.48 yen	  vs	   29.82 yen
NOTE - Ichimasa Kamaboko Co Ltd is a major marine paste product manufacturer.Year to December 31, 1996
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		  7.33		 7.70		 6.83
 Current	    916    mln	 658    mln	 684    mln
 Net		  586    mln	 477    mln	 499    mln
NOTE - Nippon Ceramic Co Ltd is a top manufacturer of fine ceramics-based sensors.Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.Property concern Asia Standard International Group Ltd said on Wednesday it was planning a US$60 million five-year term convertible bonds issue.
The company said it has invited Merrill Lynch Far East Ltd and Creditanstalt Asia Ltd to lead manage a proposed issue of convertible bonds.
The size of the bonds is expected to be US$60 million with an option granted to lead managers to require the issue of an additional US$15 million bonds, it said.
"The terms of the issue, including the aggregate amount, redemption price, interest rate and conversion terms, have not been finalised but it is currently expected that the bonds will be guaranteed, have a five-year term and be convertible into shares of the company," said chairman Clement Fung in the statement.
The bond is expected to be listed in Luxembourg.
Net proceeds from the bonds are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, it said.
Shares of Asia Standard were untraded at HK$1.54 in mid-morning.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6370Indonesia's PT Bank Lippo said on Wednesday it posted a net profit of 54.90 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against 45.95 billion rupiah in the same period last year.  
Six months to June 30, 1996
(in billion rupiah unless stated)
    Net interest income		   210.28 vs 185.43
    Other operating income		 46.65 vs 40.77
    Pre-tax profit			   78.93 vs 65.43
    Net profit				 54.90 vs 45.95
    Retained earnings		     275.19 vs 182.49
Note: The consolidated results were unaudited. Bank Lippo, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Lippo Group, is one of Indonesia's largest banks.Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit			 185   vs    223
    Group sales				 11,680   vs 11,526
Sales breakdown by division:
    Engineering				  1,374   vs  1,276
    Plant construction			   789   vs    584
    Automotive				   1,477   vs  1,537
    Processing				   1,346   vs  1,503
    Stainless steel flat, nirosta	  2,790   vs  1,946
    Quality steel, sections		  2,433   vs  3,071
    Trading and services		     2,896   vs  3,263
    Other units				    429   vs    453
    Group orders				12,676   vs 12,397
Orders breakdown by division:
    Engineering				  1,498   vs  1,631
    Plant construction			 1,526   vs    845
    Automotive				   1,503   vs  1,568
    Processing				   1,368   vs  1,673
    Stainless steel flat, nirosta	  2,549   vs  1,892
    Quality steel, sections		  2,492   vs  2,898
    Trading and services		     3,082   vs  3,419
    Other units				    431   vs    464
NOTE - Full name of the German Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Calendar 1995 and Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group loss				   1,134   vs n/a
First half of 1996:
    Group profit				 819.6   vs 184.1 loss
    Group loss excl. rescue plan	   108.9   vs 184.1 loss
NOTE - Full name of the German Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG. The company said the effects of its rescue by banks and creditors, carrying forward losses from 1994 and drawing down reserves would completely offset the 1995 loss.
These measures were also responsible for allowing the company to report a profit in the first half of 1996. Excluding the special effects of the 928.7 million mark rescue plan, KHD made a loss of 108.9 million marks in the first half of 1996.
It said this result was better than expected. Particularly in the motor division earnings continued to improve, it said.
The company said it expected group sales in 1996 to match the previous year. It gave no figures. It added that with the effects of cash aid totalling more than 800 million marks it was aiming to achieve break-even this year.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     22	vs 30.2
    Group sales (exluding Nanz group)    4,300   vs 4,100
NOTE - Full name of the German food retail group is AVA Allgemeine Handelsgesellschaft der Verbraucher AG.  
On a same-store basis, sales rose 1.4 percent, AVA said. The company said the first-half earnings decline was caused by start-up costs for new sites.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     185     vs 223
    Group incoming orders		    12,700  up two pct
    Group sales				  11,700  up one pct
    Group workforce on June 30	     72,000  vs 69,000
    Group investment			    1,500  vs n/a
NOTE - Full name of the German steel and engineering group is Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
The company said in a statement that all six business divisions were profitable in the first half of the year. The decline in pre-tax profit in the period was attributed to the weak overall economy, which had a strong impact on the steel industry and related sectors, it said.
Of total investment in the first half, 1.1 billion marks were spent on acquisitions and 400 million marks on investment in plant. As a result, Krupp said financial debt rose to correspond with business volume.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million Sfr unless stated)
 Group net incl minorities  941		 vs 749
 Minorities		     111		 vs 58
 Net profit,exclu minority  830		 vs 691
 Gross income		   6,392	     vs 5,350
 Gross profit before taxes  2,461	     vs 1,978
 Return on equity, ROE, pct 10.5		vs 9.0
 ROE, exclu minorities	9.7		 vs 8.7
Losses, write-downs  depreciation, provisions   1,120	     vs 930
 Taxes			    400		 vs 299
 Net from b/s business	1,768	     vs 1,632
 Net commission income	2,419	     vs 1,908
 Trading income		 1,896	     vs 1,525
  of which forex, metals    527		 vs 470
  of which securities,other 1,369	     vs 1,055
 Investment in companies    44		  vs 79
 Other income		   265		 vs 206
 Staff expense		  2,864	     vs 2,366
 Total operating expenses   3,931	     vs 3,372
 Other operating expense    1,067	     vs 1,006
 Total assets		   483,742	   vs 412,724
 Loans			    200,275	   vs 177,231
 Securities		     87,709	    vs 67,196
 Real Estate		    6,154	     vs 6,144
-- Zurich Newsroom, 41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million U.S. dollars unless stated)
 Gross profit pre-tax	 256		 vs 164
 Group revenues		 1,400	     vs 1,022
 Group expenses		 1,144	     vs 858
 Total assets		   149,410	   vs 133,757
NOTE - CS First Boston is a unit of CS Holding responsible for worldwide investment banking outside Switzerland.
-- Zurich newsroom +41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million Sfr unless stated)
 Gross profit pre-tax	 1,966	     vs 1,679
 Group total income	   4,442	     vs 3,950
 Group total expenditure    2,476	     vs 2,271
 Interest business income   1,440	     vs 1,409
 Commission, fee income     1,545	     vs 1,310
 Trading income		 1,232	     vs 1,054
 Other ordinary income	225		 vs 177
 Staff costs		    1,704	     vs 1,591
 General expenses	     772		 vs 680
 Total assets		   279,427	   vs 244,575
NOTE - Credit Suisse Group is the full-service banking arm of CS Holding. CS Holding's interim report said the financial statement was prepared in accordance with new accounting rules for Swiss banks and include fund manager Credis on a fully consolidated basis. Last year's interim figures have been adjusted for comparison. -- Zurich Newsroom, 41-1-258 7340Tough U.S. tobacco curbs due to be confirmed on Friday virtually eliminate the possibility of Britain's B.A.T Industries following Hanson Plc and demerging its tobacco unit, analysts said on Thursday.
Despite denials of any such plans by B.A.T, speculation that it would seek to ring-fence its financial services unit from the potentially rough ride awaiting its cigarette business has grown since Anglo-U.S. conglomerate Hanson announced in January it would seek to hive off its Imperial Tobacco subsidiary.
The last five months have seen an escalation in planned anti-tobacco litigation since the decision by Brooke Group's Liggett in March to settle a huge class action over its share of possible liability.
Analysts now believe investor sentiment against B.A.T, whose exposure to the U.S. market is much higher than Imperial, has turned to a point that a demerger is now no longer even an option for restoring share value.
"At B.A.T's current price, we calculate that the U.S. tobacco interests are valued at significantly less than nothing," said Chris Hitchings, an analyst at brokerage UBS.
With B.A.T shares having fallen a further 25 pence to 421 after news on Wednesday that President Bill Clinton was expected to endorse new rules to limit youth access to cigarettes, the group is valued well below the sum of its component parts.
UBS's Hitchings estimated that B.A.T was worth some 16.3 billion pounds ($25 billion) on a "sum of the parts" valuation against a current market capitalisation of 13 billion pounds, a shortfall rooted in fears for its U.S. tobacco arm's future.
Eradicate these concerns, and B.A.T's entire tobacco interests covering markets in the Americas, Africa, Europe and the Far East would carry a debt-free valuation of some nine billion pounds.
But even if those fears ease, the investment that the tobacco arm would need to fully exploit attractive new markets in eastern Europe and the Far East would hamper its ability to pay dividends, Hitchins added.
"A low-yielding tobacco stock is not going to be desperately attractive to investors," he said.
But some analysts believe B.A.T may yet be pressured into considering such a move if U.S. tobacco groups RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp and Philip Morris Cos Inc decide to isolate the more threatened parts of their business.
"The catalyst will be what happens to those two," said one analyst who declined to be named, noting that RJR Nabisco had in the past been the subject of unsuccessful break-up attempts.
Other industry observers insist the fears for the global tobacco industry are overdone and that B.A.T, Imperial and privatisation candidates such as Spain's Tabacalera and Portugal's Tabaqueira have strong, long-term markets to tap.
"With the eastern markets available, opportunities in tobacco have never been bigger," Nikko Europe analyst Rowan Morgan said.
He noted that it was "staggering" how far the United States was behind other countries in laying down effective measures to reduce smoking among minors and suggested that the measures due to be endorsed were an understandable attempt to catch up.
"If you want to write tobacco off, you might be surprised," Morgan said. ($1=.6458 Pound)Union CAL Ltd said it has launched a group of hedge funds that will allow smaller investors, instead of only wealthy private investors or large institutions, access to the sector for the first time.
The Helix Group of Funds will initially comprise of three share classes -- a global leverage fund, a currency fund and a volatility fund. Each will aim for returns significantly above leading indices.
"Until now, hedge funds were the investment industry's last great secret but with the arrival of the Helix funds, barriers to investment in these vehicles have been removed," said director Paul Gleeson. The offer period runs from September 1 to October 14 with a minimum $100,000 investment. The offer price is $100 per share, with a two-percent launch discount.
The Global Leverage fund will invest in a core group of commodity-based assets using derivatives and leverage to provide shareholders with absolute returns.
The Currency fund will tap world interbank spot and forward foreign exchange markets and aim to provide "consistent low volatility growth."
The volatility fund "has a more aggressive style of trading" than the other classes and will ride volatility waves to achieve "robust " rates of return, Gleeson said. The company declined to disclose who would be trading advisors for the funds. Initial charges for the funds are five percent, plus a two-percent annual management fee and a performance fee, calculated monthly, of 20 percent on net new highs.
The Helix funds will be registered in the British Virgin Islands and listed in Dublin. The custodian is the Bermuda Trust (Dublin) Ltd, with Union Global Securities Ltd as the investment manager and Union CAL Ltd as the clearing broker.
Dealing and redemption is monthly, and investors may switch classes monthly at no charge.
Union CAL Ltd and Union Global Securities Ltd are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Union Plc.
-- Caroline Allen, London Investment desk, +44 171 542 6414Den Danske Bank on Thursday said that core earnings rose 43 percent in the first half of 1996 but the pace of growth was unlikely to last.
"In the second half of 1996, core earnings, including earnings from insurance operations, are not likely to reach the level recorded in the first six months, but core earnings for the year are expected to improve somewhat on 1995," it said.
Releasing half-year results slightly down on the same period last year, the bank, Denmark's biggest, said that earnings from currency and securities dealing fell by 35 percent.
"Group results for 1996 will be particularly influenced by year-end bond and share prices," it said, making no forecast.
It logged a 1996 first half pre-tax ordinary result of 2.381 billion crowns ($415.2 million), down from 2.537 billion during the same period last year but above the most optimistic of forecasts by a panel of analysts whose estimates ranged from 1.250 to 2.250 billion.
Core earnings were up to 1.793 billion crowns in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1.257 billion during the first half of 1995. Full-year 1995 core earnings were 2.785 billion crowns.
But profit from stocks and foreign exchange slid to 585 million crowns from 906 million in the same period last year.
Provisions were almost halved, to 341 million crowns from 661 million, but the bank quoted its chief executive as saying that they would be likely to rise again in the future.
"Knud Soerensen said that provisions could probably not be maintained at this low level through a normal economic cycle," the report said.
It added that although provisioning in the second half was already likely to show an increase over the first six months, the figure for the full year was expected to be lower than 1995's 1.254 billion.
The bank said it returned 15.6 percent on equity.
The Copenhagen stock market welcomed the report, sending the bank's share up 8.5 crowns to 404.5 after the announcement, although it later settled back to 402.00 crowns.
Soerensen later told Reuters that he aimed to increase group profitability further by a fresh round of cost-cutting, after triiming outgoings by 91 million crowns to 3.067 billion during the 1996 first half.
"We are a little careful about anticipating a continued fall in our costs but we will work with that aim," he said.
Staff cuts of almost 700 to a present force of 11,000 have helped bring about cost reductions.
Den Danske Bank's closest rival, Unidanmark, on Tuesday filed first half profits up 18 percent to 1.275 billion crowns, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. -- Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.735 Danish Crown)Britain's Rentokil Group Plc Thursday reported a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil, with businesses ranging from pest control to security systems, had a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds ($208.2 million) in the six months to June 30, at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change to Rentokil Initial Plc follows the group's 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
Chief Executive Sir Clive Thompson said the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He said Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's revenue more than doubled to 842 million pounds ($1.3 billion) from 400.9 million ($620.6 million) in the year-ago period. Shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence (2.79 cents), up from 1.23 pence (1.9 cents).
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds ($533.0 million) to turnover and 15.1 million pounds ($23.4 million) to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr. 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds (724.0 million) and profit grew by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds ($184.8 million).
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence ($63.78), up three pence (4.6 cents) in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds ($30.9 million).
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.Britain's Rentokil Group Plc on Thursday notched up a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil made a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds in the six months to June 30, just at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change follows the pest control-to-security group's victorious 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
The firm now aims to be called Rentokil Initial Plc.
Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He added Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's turnover more than doubled to 842 million pounds from 400.9 million and shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence up from 1.23 pence.
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds to turnover and 15.1 million pounds to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact on Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds and profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds.
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence pence, up three pence in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds.
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
Plans for the integration of hospital services and hygiene and health care are also well advanced, he said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
But Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals. "We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.
($1=.6460 Pound)---------------------------------------------------------------
		     DAY'S RANGE * SUPPORT * RESTNCE* MA-25 * MA-200
 Ladbroke Group    200-206   *   180   *   206  *  192  *  177
---------------- VIEWS FROM THE MARKET - Aug 22 ---------------
+ Ladbroke shares appear ready to breakout above 206p resistance and to go up to 220p, technical analysts said.
+ The stock's long-term downtrend from 1991 looks to be over and a bullish golden cross pattern -- with the 25 day moving average crossing above the 200 day average -- was made in February. The shares are also starting to pick-up relative to the FTSE 100 index.  
Shares in hotels and leisure company Ladbroke Group Plc look set to climb past this year's peak at 206p and go on to about 220p long-term, technical analysts said.
From a peak of 205p in April the shares have been marking time until their latest surge from 180p in July.
"A move to 220p is expected before the next consolidation phase will be due," said Robin Griffiths, technical analyst at HSBC James Capel.
By 0810 GMT, Ladbroke shares were up a penny to 202p.  
"The stock was in a (long-term) bear trend from 1991 until last November," said Griffiths. "From then on the pattern has been positive and a golden cross was made in February."
By that he implied the stock's 25 day moving average had crossed above the 200 day average and this usually signals a long-term uptrend for the shares.
From chart theory it is said that after a significant share price move, the price tends to retrace part of that move before rejoining the original trend and such retracements are made in certain percentage of the original move.  
For Ladbroke a normal 33 percent retracement of the 80p rise between November 1995 to April this year took the share price to 180p in July and it now appears set to challenge resistance at 206p.
With the relative strength chart -- of Ladbroke's share price divided by the FTSE 100 index -- showing a positive stance, the odds favour a strengthening of the share price, said Griffiths.
"From the July low at 180p we now have a new buy signal confirmed by relative strength," he said.
-- Pradip Mishra, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7954Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it is pleased with its acquisition of rival BET earlier this year and the acquired firm's operations have great potential within the enlarged group.
"We are very pleased with what we have seen...the upside opportunities are excellent," chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told a news conference after the firm's half year results.
Thompson confirmed the group did not plan any major disposals from BET despite having had a number of approaches for most parts of the firm and even Rentokil's own pest control operation.  
"We had approaches from a lot of people for almost every part of BET," he said.
Thompson said the firm had not lost any meaningful business because of the turmoil of the takeover bid. "We are not aware that, as a result of the acquisition, we have lost any significant accounts," he added.
One piece of unfinished business from the BET buy is a legal wrangle with the target firm's former chief executive John Clark. Thompson said Clark would appear in the High Court on October 7 as part of his battle to win 3.3 million stg in compensation for his dismissal.  
Thompson would not disclose Rentokil's compensation offer but said all the other former BET board members had accepted it. "We are surprised that Mr Clark has not accepted what we consider to be a generous offer," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717British Polythene Industries Plc said on Thursday it had bought two Jefferson Smurfit Group Plc subsidiaries for an undisclosed sum.
The trading units acquired were Swains Packaging and Smurfit Packaging Products based in Essex outside London and Manchester, northern England, respectively.Traded options in BAT Industries were active on Thursday as traders took positions while the underlying shares plunged, dealers said.
A belief that, given time, shares in the tobacco-to-insurance group will recover, may have been the reason why one trader bought 1,500 April 460 calls at 25p. Another deal was to buy 1,000 lots in the same series at 27p.
By 1505 GMT, BAT shares were down 21p to 425p.
There was also a seller of a calendar put spread which was established by selling 250 November 500 puts at 74-1/2p and buying 250 January 500 puts at 74p for a net credit of 1/2p.  
This is effectively like having a long put position for next to nothing.
The deals in BAT were prompted by expectaions of stringent moves in the U.S. concerning tobacco companies.
The main trade in supermarket chain Asda Group was the purchase of 1,000 April 180 calls at 8-1/2p. The shares added a penny to 119p and they will go ex-dividend by 1.93p net of basic tax on Monday.
Also active was insurer Prudential Corp  with the November 460 calls particularly in demand from traders buying in lot sizes of 200, 250 and 400 at prices from 12p to 15p.
Prudential shares raced up 18p to 443p ahead of the insurance sector reporting season in September.
Elsewhere, there was a short strangle in retailer Kingfisher achieved by selling 300 February 650 puts at 28p as well as 300 February 700 calls at 24-1/2p.
Kingfisher was 8p better at 668p.
Over in food manufacturer United Biscuits, there was a buyer of 500 November 220 calls at 6-1/2p. The shares added 2p to 211p.
-- Pradip Mishra, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7954Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it is sticking with its 20 percent growth target which the pest control-to-security firm has met for the past 14 years.
"The objective remains," chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told a news conference.
Earlier the firm posted first half results that beat its goal as it saw pre-tax profit rise 35.6 percent to 134.5 million stg. Excluding the contribution from its massive buy of BET, Rentokil said the firm's profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million stg.  
The firm's shares rose on the figures and by 1141 GMT were up 8-1/2 pence to 417-1/2p.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the firm was trying to bring in its management culture to the acquired group. He said BET had been marked by greater independence for its units, while Rentokil concentrated more on high performance and centralisation.
The firm also earlier announced it plans to change its name to Rentokil Initial Plc in an effort to focus its diverse operations around the two brand names of Initial and Rentokil.  
Corporate affairs director Charles Grimaldi said the process of rebranding all of the firm's operations would be a lengthy and gradual one, but that doing it slowly would incur less costs.
"In terms of extra cost it will be very limited...it will not be overnight," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *
 Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )
 Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945British pest control to security group Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it plans no major disposals from its acquired rival BET.
Earlier this year Rentokil won a fierce battle to buy BET for 2.1 billion stg and said that it would consider the future of BET's Plant Hire, Style and Resorts International unit.
But chief executive Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals.
"We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.Shares in Zeneca Group surged to a record in pre-market dealings as speculation about a merger heated up, traders said.
The shares were up 19p to 1533p.  
Talk that Natwest issued a buy note on Zeneca also bolstered the shares, they said. Natwest declined to comment.
The entire British pharmaceutical sector was lifted yesterday by the recurring bid rumours. The latest talk involves Swiss giant Roche Holding AG.
But today, Zeneca appeared to move alone, leaving behind Glaxo Wellcome, which was only up 5p to 918p, and SmithKline Beecham, down 1p to 742p.
"It's just more of the same bid rumours and it seems to be coming from the States," said one market-maker.  
Zeneca's ADRs jumped $1-5/8 to $71 in the U.S. after a strong performance in London yesterday. ADRs in Glaxo and SmithKline rose fractionally.
--Debra Sherman, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4026Engineering firm Weir Group Plc repeated its earlier forecast that the second-half results will be stronger than in the first half and that the group will make full-year progress.
Weir earlier reported that first-half pre-tax profit fell 4.8 percent to 19.2 million stg, partly due to a lower profit contribution from Devonport Dockyard.
"Although the setback at Devonport is not helpful, nevertheless we can see no reason at this time for changing our views (on the full-year outlook)," chairman Viscount Weir said in a statement.
Devonport was hit by significant disruptions to its refitting programme due to modifications to meet increased safety requirements for existing docks.
Additionally, there was a slower than normal settlement of contracts with the Ministry of Defence, Weir Group said.
Beisdes Devonport, first-half results were also hit by a worse performance of Strachan and Henshaw, but this had been expected, Weir said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Half year July 27, 1996
			   (million stg unless stated)
 Shr (pence)		0.18 gain	    vs 1.49 loss
 Dividend (pence)	 2.40		   vs 1.20
 Pretax		     0.05 profit	  vs 0.49 loss
 Turnover		   28.1		   vs 24.8
 Trading profit	   0.57		   vs 0.08
 Interest payable	 0.51		   vs 0.57
 Tax			  0.01		   vs 0.16
 Net taxed		  0.04 profit	  vs 0.33 loss
 Pay date		   December 16
 Div registration date  November 5
 Ex-div date		October 28
NOTE - Goldsmiths Group Plc is a jewellery firm. The firm said the retail trading environment is still fragile, but that the firm is trading well.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday it aims to change its company name to Rentokil Initial Plc.
The move comes after the 2.1 billion stg acquisition of rival BET, which brought with it the Initial brand name, earlier in the year.
"It is proposed to change the name of the company...to reflect the plans to develop two international brands, Rentokil and Initial," the firm said in its first half results statement.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Analysts' estimates of UK company results expected in week ending August 23 include -
COMPANY---------PFT/DIV/EPS--CONSENSUS----RANGE-------PVS
THURSDAY, Aug 22
 Rentokil ** I    PFT	137.7	135.0-141.0   99.2
 Group Plc	  DIV	  1.48	   n/a	 1.23
FRIDAY, Aug 23 - No major companies reporting
NOTES -
** The Rentokil forecasts are pre exceptional and include
two months of profits from BET.
All profit figures are pretax, exclude exceptional items
unless otherwise stated and are in millions stg. Dividends
are total net and quoted as pence per share.
John Sutherland, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7945Ford Motor Co said Thursday it has sold all of USL Capital's Real Estate Financing (REF) mortgages to Bankers Trust Co for about $575 million.
This sale of the majority of REF's assets essentially completes Ford's sale of USL Capital's six business units. Ford said that it expects to receive cash proceeds after taxes of more than $1 billion from the USL Capital sales.
USL Capital, a commercial financing and leasing company headquartered in San Francisco, has been part of Ford's Financial Services Group.  
Proceeds from the sales will be used to reduce the Financial Services Group debt, Ford said in a statement.
Results of the sales will be reported with Ford's third or fourth quarter financial statements, depending on when the separate business unit sales are closed.
The sales of USL Capital's Rail Services and Fleet Services business units closed in July.
The sale of the Transportation and Industrial financing unit was announced July 26 and the sale of the Business Equipment Financing unit on August 6 both are expected to close in the third quarter.
Nearly all of the corporate and municipal financing portfolios have now been sold or have sales arrangements in place.
Ford purchased USL Capital, then known as U.S. Leasing, in 1987 for $512 million. USL Capital had owned or managed assets of $9.7 billion, 640 employees, 70 U.S. branches and pre-tax earnings of $300 million at year-end 1995.
About 60 percent of USL Capital employees have been offered employment by the acquiring companies.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787Shares in Philip Morris Cos Inc continued to fall preceding Thursday's U.S. market open, deepening a rout that began yesterday on expected tougher federal regulations and new cigarette-related lawsuits.
Philip Morris shares traded at 87 before the regular-session start, off 5/8, traders said.
They reported no moves in other tobacco issues in early pre-open activity, including RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, Brooke Group Ltd and UST Inc.John Fields' strategy is simple: Find stocks that are out of favor and underpriced, with potential for earnings growth.
The portfolio manager of Delaware Group Decatur Total Return Fund starts with a look at the yield. "It's a dividend yield driven investment style," Fields said. "We can't buy or hold a stock that does not have a dividend yield greater than the S&P 500." The yield for the S&P 500 is about 2.21 percent.  
Fields said the strategy, which has been in use since 1957, forces him to focus on stocks that are either out of favor or off most investors' radar screens.
Under the second criteria, the $635 million fund seeks stocks that pack earnings power. "We're looking for earnings surprises," Fields said, "something a little better than the market expects."
The stocks are "ones that anyone would be proud to own over time. They're not broken-down companies," Fields said.
He cited Pitney Bowes Inc, one of the fund's top picks, currently yielding about 2.89 percent.  
"It usually does not have a yield superior to the S&P," he said. "The only thing we can find (to explain it) is the boredom factor. Does mailroom automation turn you on?
"It's a fine company, with above-average returns, and it just kind of drifted off the radar screen," he said, adding that he sees it generating double-digit earnings, revenue and dividend growth.
Among sectors, Fields is currently focused on banking stocks, which he sees as "the growth story in the market," and the pharmaceutical sector, which has above-average yields and healthy earnings growth.  
The fund's top holding is DuPont Co, about 2.8 percent of the portfolio. Other big picks include Philip Morris Cos Inc, McGraw-Hill Cos Inc, Union Pacific Corp, SmithKline Beecham, British Petroleum Co Plc, Mobil Corp, Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, and May Department, Stores Co.
Fields said in recent weeks the fund added Philip Morris, under some pressure in recent weeks due to investor concern over tobacco litigation, May, Pitney and DuPont. The fund recently sold British Petroleum and U.S. Bancorp.  
Fields doesn't place big bets, crafting a portfolio with about 70 stocks, none more than three percent of total assets.
Currently common stocks make up 98 percent of the fund, convertible issues 1 percent, and cash one percent. That breakdown has barely changed in the last six months. The fund is usually fully invested, Fields said.
According to Lipper Analytical Services, the fund's return year to date is 6.91 percent versus 6.78 percent for the average income fund. For 1995, it returned 30.51 percent versus 30.21 average for the group, and over five years, 13.77 percent versus 12.8 percent.
-- jeff.benkoe@reuters.com. 212-859-1700Andover Togs Inc said it had reached an agreement with The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc for a two-year $15 million revolving credit facility.
The company said in a Wednesday statement that the agreement, which is subject to final documentation, is expected to be completed this week and submitted for approval by the Bankruptcy Court.
Upon approval by the court, this new facility will replace the company's existing $11 million credit facility which is due to terminate in December 1996.
The maker of children's wear filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 19.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax & extraordinary items result  2,381 vs 2,537  
 Group pre-tax result			2,353  vs 2,449
 Net interest and fees income	    4,629  vs 4,838
 Securities and forex results		585  vs 905.8
 Losses and bad debt provisions	    341  vs 661
 Capital ratio (percent)		     9.1  vs 10.6
Own capital end-June 96 23.09 billion vs 20.31 bln end-June 95
Balance end-June 96	412 billion  vs   349 bln end-June 95
NOTE - Full name of biggest Danish banking group Den Danske Bank A/S. It forecast in a statement a better whole year 1996 core activities result than last year. The result was above analyst expectations.
--Copenhagen newsroom +45-33-969650Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output		5,500   up 9.3 pct
	 Of which domestic		     3,320   up 2.0 pct
	 Of which foreign			2,190   up 22.4 pct
    Incoming orders			    8,480   up 62.1 pct
	 Of which domestic		     3,363   up 1.9 pct
	 Of which foreign			4,850   up 190.8 pct
    Orders in hand			     14,050  up 32.7 pct
	 Of which domestic		     6,070  down 8.1 pct
	 Of which foreign			7,980   up 100.2 pct
    Staff					  41,943  up 5.8 pct
	 Of which domestic		     21,445  down 1.7 pct
	 Of which foreign			20,498  up 14.8 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German construction group is Hochtief AG. The group noted that its order figures included one single major order for the Athens airport, which added 2.38 billion marks to the total. Without this order, foreign orders would have risen 48 percent and overall orders would have risen 16.6 percent.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525.Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output	     5,500   up 9.3 pct
    Group incoming orders		   8,480   up 62.1 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Hochtief AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Life assurance		    2,210	vs	   1,458
 Non-life insurance		  649	vs	     656
 UNI Storebrand ASA		   97	vs     minus 151
 Storebrand Bank AS	   minus 14	vs	     n/a
Eliminations/
 other companies	     minus 216	vs		13
 Operating result		  2,756	vs	   1,990
Life policy holder's
 portion			     1,896	vs	   1,207
 Group result			  860	vs	     783
NOTE -- Full name of Norway's largest insurance company is UNI Storebrand ASA. Seven analysts polled by Reuters forecast the company would book a first-half group result of 683 million crowns on the average.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     196.2   up 29.6 pct
    Group sales				  10,500  up 16.5 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German drugs wholesale group is Gehe AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Three months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     1,203   vs 1,145
    Group sales excluding taxes	    12,435  vs 11,991
    --domestic sales			   3,162   vs 3,239
    --foreign sales			    9,273   vs 8,752
NOTE - Full name of the German chemicals group is BASF AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30 (in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			1,370   vs 1,196
    Group pre-tax profit		  2,323   vs 2,025
    Group sales excluding taxes	 24,267  vs 24,057
NOTE - Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted on average a 17 percent rise in pre-tax profit with estimates ranging between 2.27 billion and 2.38 billion marks. Sales were forecast to increase by three percent on average excluding gas and mineral oil taxes, with estimates ranging between 23.9 billion and 26.4 billion marks.
    Parent pre-tax profit		 1,156   vs 1,161
    Parent sales excl taxes	     10,389  vs 11,336
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Morkels Ltd said on Thursday it planned to change the company's name to Morkels Retail Group Ltd and reduce the share premium account by up to 30.9 million rand.
The moves follow the acquisition of the operating subsidiaries of Bergers Trading Holdings Ltd.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003The financial group connected to Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. (IPB) said on Thursday that it had taken control over the Czech glass fibre producer Vertex a.s. .
Spokesman for IPB investment arm Prvni Investicni, Tomas Kopriva, told Reuters that the IPB Group had placed its chosen directors on Vertex's board by controlling more than 51 percent of the voting shares present at an extraordinary shareholders meeting in the eastern Czech town of Litomysl.  
"Altogether more than 51 percent voted with us," Kopriva said.
IPB has been battling for the control of Vertex with another large Czech banking group Komercni Banka a.s. .
In June and July analysts said both groups had been amassing shares in Vertex through the secondary market, helping to push the stock's price over 7,000 crowns.
The stock was down 251 crowns from Wednesday's close at 4,783 at the Prague Stock Exchange's daily fixing, prior to the results of the general meeting.
-- Radek Narovec, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003Chemapol Group a.s., a rapidly growing Czech trading and chemicals conglomerate, on Thursday pulled the veil off its quietly amassed empire with plans to expand its shareholding base globally.
Chemapol general director Vaclav Junek told a news conference the holding company planned a minimum 600 million crown Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) issue by the year's end.
The Bank of New York would act as depositor for the issue of the receipts, which will carry voting rights for the shares to be registered in the Czech Republic.
The issue, which should be the last tranche of the company's current equity expansion plan, would be arranged by the investment bank HSBC and Chemapol's own finance unit Expandia Finance, Junek said.
Chemapol has grown from mostly oil trading company -- a business it was partially pushed out of by local refineries -- to control an estimated 20 billion crowns in equity throughout its various holdings.
Company officials said the GDR issue was planned to help raise liquidity in the hard-to-find shares, and broaden the firm's financing base.
Taking advantage of the rapid Czech privatisation programmes and a stealthy equities market, Chemapol has quietly acquired significant stakes in 67 companies. Through those companies it holds stakes in many other firms.
The company said it recently reorganised its structure, forming five sub-holdings split among chemicals and pharmaceuticals, international trade, real estate, media and communications, and chemicals distribution holdings.
"I believe that a company that has more than a half of its turnover realised abroad... should not be afraid of going to foreign markets, but it should also have contacts on the shareholders' level as well," Junek said.
The firm will also seek listing on the Prague Stock Exchange between now and the first half of the next year, finally joining other large Czech firms whose shares have been trading on the market for more than three years.
Chemapol is one of the most tightly-held large Czech groups, with primarily domestic shareholders and a small fraction of shares traded on the Czech OTC exchange RM-System.
Chemapol Group's current basic capital is 1.68 billion crowns after a series of new rights issues. Six Czech banks hold more than 50 percent of the company's stock.
Junek said after the GDR issue the equity capital should remain between 2.2 and 2.5 billion crowns in the medium term.
The company revelaed its latest acquisition on Thursday, saying it had amassed an 80 percent stake in the privatised state arms and machinery trading company Omnipol.
"We have been thinking about creating another 'leg', a machinery trading unit, for a long time," Junek said.
He added that Chemapol would coordinate with Omnipol its international activities in order to increase Omnipol's sales twice over the next two years to five or six billion crowns.
Junek said most of Omnipol's turnover were items other than arms, mainly machinery. He said Chemapol would also use Omnipol's close connections with the military aircraft-maker Aero Vodochody aiming to gain control over the firm.
The director also said that Chemapol's media unit was interested in taking an unspecified stake in the private Czech TV station Premiera. "(A result of the negotiations) will be clear at the beginning of the next year," said Junek.
The group reported consolidated net profit for the first half of this year of 290 million crowns, but is still expecting an international audit. The group posted audited net profit of 62.5 million crowns in 1995.
It had total sales of over 40 billion crowns in 1995 and 29 billion crowns in the first half of 1996.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003Czech trading and chemicals conglomerate Chemapol Group a.s. said on Thursday it was planning a minimum 600 million crown Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) issue by the end of the year.
Chemapol Director Vaclav Junek told a news conference that the Bank of New York would act as depositor for the issue of the receipts, which will carry voting rights for the shares to be registered in the Czech Republic.
The issue, which should be the last tranche of the company's equity expansion plan, would be aranged by the investment bank HSBC and Chemapol's own finance unit Expandia Finance, Junek said.
Details will be discussed at an extraordinary shareholders meeting called for September 20.
"We are, together with HSBC and Expandia Finance ... preparing an international issue which should be realised before the end of the year," Junek said. "The bottom limit, as proposed, is 600 million crowns."
Chemapol Group's current basic capital is 1.68 billion crowns. Six Czech banks hold more than 50 percent of the company's stock.
The company, which has holdings ranging from chemical production to media and arms and machinery trading units, also said it would seek listing on the Prague Stock Exchange between now and the first half of the next year.
It is one of the most tightly held large Czech groups, with primarily domestic shareholders and a small fraction of shares traded on the Czech OTC exchange RM-System.
The company declared on Thursday that it had built up an 80 percent stake in the former state arms trading company Omnipol.
The group reported consolidated sales of over 40 billion crowns in 1995 and 29 billion crowns in the first half of 1996.
Chemapol directly holds stakes in 67 companies, and through those companies it holds stakes in various other firms, Junek said.
-- Jan Lopatka, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003PaineWebber Group Inc said Thursday that it named Bruce Rubin as president and chief executive officer of its PaineWebber Properties Inc subsidiary.
Rubin replaces Lawrence Cohen, who has left the firm, the company said.
Rubin joined PaineWebber last November and served as senior vice president in real estate banking.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1610Resource Bancshares Mortgage Group Inc said on Thursday that its July 1996 mortgage loan production was $775.3 million, a 1 percent decrease from the July 1995 production of $786.6 million.
For the seven months ended July 31, 1996, mortgage loan production was $6.4 billion, a 150% increase over the same period for 1995, the company said.
The company said its locked mortgage loan pipeline was $768.0 million at July 31, 1996, compared to $957.2 million at July 31, 1995.Thyssen Steel Group, a division of Thyssen Inc N.A., said Thursday it has secured an option to purchase 40 acres of land near Richburg, S.C. for construction of a proposed steel processing and distribution center.
Thyssen Steel Group, which currently operates two steel distribution centers in the Southeast United States, said it is building the facility to expand its business in the automotive, appliance and home and farm equipment markets.
Construction is expected to begin in the fall of 1996.
Thyssen Inc provides steel, aluminum, specialty metals and plastics processing and distribution. It is a subsidiary of Thyssen AG, based in Dusseldorf, Germany.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787A group led by TCW Group said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Thursday it holds an 11.1 percent stake in Kellstrom Industries or 342,100 common shares.
The group disclosed its latest position on Kellstrom in a 13G filing.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. Unlike 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.The Inter-American Investment Corporation agreed on Thursday to lend $3 million and mobilize $15 million from commercial banks to help Argentine company PASA SA expand its petrochemical facilities.
The loans will help finance a $38 million project to increase PASA's production capacity of ammonia, urea and ethyl benzene, said the IIC, part of the Inter-American Development Bank Group.
About 20 percent of spending on the project will be invested in upgrading environmental control systems and equipment.Carbide/Graphite Group Inc said Thursday expenses due to downtime at its Seadrift needle coke facility will reduce first quarter net income by about $1 million.
The Seadrift facility, which is closed for maintenance approximately two weeks every two to three years, remained closed for an extra week as maintenance and capital projects took longer to implement.
Carbide/Graphite is a leading manufacturer of industrial graphite and calcium carbide products.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) said on Thursday it would list put and call options on shares of Portland General Corp and PP&L Resources Inc on August 27.
The options on both companies will trade on the February expiration cycle, with initial expiration months of September, October, November and February. Susquehanna Investment Group will be the specialist for both.
Portland General will have initial strikes of 35, 40 and 45 and PP&L will have initial strikes of 20, 22-1/2 and 25. -Derivatives desk, 312-408-8750/E-mail: derivatives@reuters.comPeoples Heritage Financial Group Inc's acquisition of Family Bancorp has been approved by shareholders of both companies, Peoples Heritage said Thursday.
Their agreement calls for Family Bancorp shareholders to receive 1.26 shares of Peoples Heritage common stock for each share of Family common stock.
Family Bancorp shares were up 3/8 at 26-3/8 on Thursday afternoon, while Peoples Heritage was unchanged at 21-3/8.
Peoples Heritage is a $4.4 billion banking and financial services holding company. Family Bancorp is an $892 million holding company for Family Bank FSB.Greenstone Roberts Advertising said on Thursday a wholly owned subsidiary has merged The Gothard Group Inc, a public relations agency.
Terms of the transaction, which involves Greenstone Roberts Advertising/Florida, were not disclosed.
The merged public relations and marketing agency, will be renamed Gothard/Greenstone Roberts.
Ronald Greenstone, chairman of the parent company, will be the chief executive of the newly created agency.The resurrection of global aviation pioneer Pan Am, bankrupt five years ago, has been delayed by the ValuJet and TWA crashes -- but the new domestic carrier is flying test runs for a debut after Labor Day.
The new Pan American World Airways, which had aimed for a July 4th inauguration and then targeted Labor Day, should be ready for its first revenue flight a short time thereafter, Chief Executive Martin Shugrue said in a recent interview.
Shugrue said his management team had expected an expedited approval process because Pan Am's rebirth was based on "financing already in place, a solid business plan, crack management and young, wide-bodied aircraft."
But the May 11 crash of ValuJet Flight 592 in Florida's Everglades, which killed all 110 people on board, and the July 17 crash of TWA Flight 800 in the Atlantic Ocean off Long Island, killing 230, slowed federal approval by the Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration.
"Given new concerns about airline safety and terrorism, our certification process understandably took longer than expected," he said.
Shugrue said the ValuJet crash, in which investigators suspect oxygen canisters shipped on the airliner by a contractor as a possible cause, diverted attention from Pan Am's certification and focused the spotlight on "outsourcing," or the use of outside contractors.
"Like many airlines today, we plan to outsource elements of our operations. But we were prescient in that we did not and do not plan to outsource the key areas of engineering, quality assurance and maintenance record keeping," he said.
Pan Am received provisional Transportation Department certification on Tuesday and Shugrue expects FAA certification in the near future. He said the airline was about 90 percent through FAA certification with only "proving flights" remaining to demonstrate Pan Am's readiness to fly between Miami, New York and Los Angeles.
The Transportation Department approval was granted despite a petition filed by families of the victims of the Pan Am Flight 103 crash over Lockerbie, Scotland opposing Shugrue's involvement with the new Pan Am. The families have not yet decided whether to further oppose the start-up carrier.
Shugrue was vice chairman and chief operating officer of the old Pan Am and served as president of Continental Airlines and trustee for Eastern Airlines after its 1989 bankruptcy.
Once final federal approval is obtained, Pan Am will complete its financing, Shugrue said.
On Aug. 12, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved a registration statement for Pan Am's reverse merger with the Frost-Hanna Mergers Group and a shareholders meeting on the merger is set for Sept. 4.
"At that point, an additional $17 million will be released to Pan Am. Shortly after that, Pan Am will list its stock," he said. Total financing at this point is more than $30 million in cash and nearly $10 million in kind.
"We want to launch as soon after Labor Day as possible in time for the business travel season. Our marketing effort is oriented toward frequent business flyers," Shugrue said.
Shugrue said he expected one-third of Pan Am's traffic to come from deals with international airlines that will feed passengers at three gateway airports. In return, Pan Am will feed domestic passengers to the international flights.
Among airlines already signed are AeroPeru, Aero Costa Rica, AirEuropa, Air Ukraine, Royal Jordanian, Carnival and Gulfstream. Airlines which have committed but have not signed contracts include AeroMexico, Egypt Air, Cayman, Mexicana, Olympic, and Virgin Atlantic.
The new Pan Am has three A300 Airbus aircraft under contract. The planes originally were operated by Eastern Airlines, then Continental.
Most of the 14 captains who have received their new Pan Am wings are seasoned Airbus pilots, six with Pan Am and eight with Eastern. They have an average of 17,000 flying hours each.
Pan Am's failure in 1991 ended an era in air travel. The carrier was launched in 1927 with a flight from Key West, Florida, to Havana, Cuba, and began extensive international air travel in the 1930s with many early routes scouted by the legendary Charles Lindbergh. It started first-class service and in-flight movies.Times Mirror Co said Thursday that advertising revenues for its Newspaper Publishing Group for the five weeks ended August 4 rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier, to $137.5 million from $131.9 million.
For the 31 weeks of the year to date, advertising revenues rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier, to $898.8 million from $890.6 million.
Times Mirror said year-to-date results for 1996 contained six more days than the comparable 1995 results.American Phoenix Group Inc and Kushi Macrobiotics Corp said they filed a joint registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with details of their planned merger.
The companies said they expect the merger to become effective after review by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The companies said they amended the terms of the warrants whereby the exercise price of the warrants was reduced by $2.50, from $6.25 to $3.75 per share.Brooks Fiber Properties Inc said Thursday it would invest more than $60 million to build and operate three fiber optic networks in the White Plains, N.Y., San Mateo, Calif., and Springfield, Mo., areas.
The networks will operate under the name of Brooks Fiber Communications, competing with services offered by NYNEX Corp, Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell and SBC Communications Inc's Southwestern Bell.
With the three new systems, Brooks Fiber will have 29 U.S. networks in operation or under construction.
Brooks Fiber plans to be in 30 markets by the end of 1996 and at least 50 by the end of 1998.
Construction of the networks will begin immediately, with services expected to be offered in the first quarter of 1997.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Nynex Corp said on Thursday it signed a new interconnection agreement with Teleport Communications Group that expands on a similar pact, made in 1994, to connect the companies' telephone networks in New York.
The agreement aims to meet a 14-point checklist of conditions in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as required for Nynex's entry into New York's long-distance market, the company said.  
In a separate statement, Teleport said the deal would enable it to compete for about $1.5 billion in fees that long-distance telephone companies currently pay Nynex for switched access services in New York.
"TCG was the first competitive local exchange carrier to enter into an interconnection agreement with Nynex back in 1994, and now we are the first to introduce competition into the area of switched access rates paid by long distance companies," said Bob Annunziata, Teleport's chairman, president and chief executive.
Teleport said it would be able to act as a tandem or intermediate switch to terminate and originate calls between long-distance carriers and their customers. The company said a tandem switch links multiple central offices to interexchange carriers.
On June 30, 1994, Teleport and Nynex entered into the first U.S. interconnection agreement between competing local exchange carriers. Nynex said it expected the latest pact to serve as a template for negotiations with Teleport in other states in its service area.ITT Sheraton, the hotel chain owned by ITT Corp, has ruled itself out of the auction for the 17 hotels that are part of Forte's Exclusive chain, the Financial Times said.
Granada Group Plc, which acquired the hotels as part of its purchase of Forte last January, is in the process of auctioning off the luxury chain.
ITT Sheraton, which initially expressed an interest in the Exclusive hotels, said it has not made any bids, the newspaper said.
Granada chief executive Charles Allen said: "There is big interest in individual hotels, in groups of hotels and in the whole portfolio," the Financial Times reported.
The Exclusive hotels include the Hyde Park Hotel and Grosvenor House in London, the Ritz in Madrid, and the George V in Paris.
The Financial Times said Grosvenor House had been expected to fetch a bid of about 400 million stg, but it is thought to have received a top bid of about 300 million stg.
About 40 bidders remain and some are interested in acquiring Forte's 68 percent stake in the Savoy group of luxury hotels, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Shares in British pharmaceutical firm Zeneca Group set a record on Thursday amid renewed rumours Swiss giant Roche Holdings AG was nursing a takeover bid but the shares fell back as analysts dismissed the chatter.
"It would have to be a very attractive deal for (Zeneca's) shareholders," Kleinwort Benson analyst Steve Putman said of a possible bid. "I think it's unlikely for now. Whether the company disappears in two years time is a different story."
The worldwide drug industry has undergone dramatic consolidation over the last two years, making any medium size company a potential takeover candidate.
But a hostile bidder would have to pay as much as 20 pounds per share for Zeneca, said Steve Abbott, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Laing.
"I don't think there will be a hostile bid. Zeneca might find a partner to merge with in a few years time and the implied price (of Zeneca's shares) after a friendly merger could be around 1750p," Abbott said.
"You could argue that Zeneca is trading at the top end of fair value," added Putman. "The company should deliver at least 12 percent earnings growth for the next five years ... and that would put it in line with U.S. drug companies."
Putman figures 18 times 1997 earnings is close to fair value for Zeneca's shares. He's forecasting pretax profits of 1.130 billion stg in 1997 and 1.255 billion stg in 1998.
Shares in Zeneca, which reached an all-time intra-day peak of 1538p, gave up their early gains, but still were holding between 50p and 100p of takeover premium, analysts said.
Zeneca, Britain's third biggest drug company, declined to comment on the takeover speculation, but only two weeks ago, Zeneca's chief executive Sir David Barnes reiterated management's intention to remain independent.
"The company has a glowing future in front of it. We are facing very strong prospects for organic growth. There is no strategic imperative to go scurrying for shelter (with another firm)," he told Reuters in an interview earlier this month after reporting a 21 percent increase in first half profits.
"Zeneca would be a big chunk for anyone to bite off. Roche could do it, but it's not Roche's style to launch a hostile bid," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"At this stage in the cycle, anything other than an agreed upon bid or a merger is unlikely. It wouldn't make sense for Roche to make an expensive and presumably dilutive acquisition," he added. "But there's no smoke without fire. I think there's something going on somewhere."
Laing's Abbott added, "That's not to say Zeneca might not find a partner to merge with in two or three years. There are a lot of smaller companies that are never mentioned that could be good partners."Leisure group Servgro International said on Thursday it was considering listing subsidiary Forbes Financial Services Group.
It said that although an in principle decision had been taken on listing Forbes, in which it has a 70 percent stake, no firm decision had yet been taken on the timing or the details.
Forbes operates a number of specialist businesses which include risk management, actuarial, employee benefit and insurance companies.
The company lifted attributable profit by 31 percent to 55 million rand in the 1996 financial year and further growth was anticipated from its divisions.
"Various alternatives to achieve the listing are being considered and when the final decisions have been accepted by the boards of both Servgro and Forbes, a more detailed announcement will be made," it said.
-- Johannesburg newsroom, +27 11 482-1003The British port of Felixstowe on Thursday won a two-year contract to manage a three-berth container terminal at the Kenyan port of Mombasa.
Kenya Ports Authority Executive Chairman Robert Brenneisen and Felixstowe Port Consultants Chief Executive Officer Derrek Harrington signed the contract that is effective on September 1 and under which Felixtowe will be paid $1.1 million per year.  
Under the contract, Felixstowe will train Kenya Ports Authority staff both locally and abroad, help in the setting up of a container tracking system to be acquired from the Port of Mauritius in Port Louis and supervise a major rehabilitation programme of ships to shore cranes.
The new team will be represented in Mombasa by five staff from Felixstowe port and aims at a productivity target after 12 months of 375 crane lifts per day per crane average with a bonus if the target is exceeded. Mombasa port now does between 200 and 250 moves per day, causing a low turnaround for vessels.
Felixstowe will be responsible for maintenance of the equipment at the container terminal, an area that has been largely blamed for the inefficiency that has sometimes included purchasing of wrong spares, low staff morale and corruption.
Felixstowe was one of seven companies that tendered for the contract. Others were the Port of Singapore Authority, Portia Management Services, Port of Boston, Hamburg Port Consultancy GmbH of Germany, Saga Group of France and P&O Australia Ports.Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264The Trocadero entertainment complex in the heart of London's Piccadilly marked its relaunch on Tuesday after a 50 million pound ($77 million) redevelopment that it said was expected to triple revenues over five years.
"An estimated 55 million visitors a year pass by the Trocadero and some 20 million people come through the centre," Nick Leslau, chief executive of Trocadero Plc, told a news conference.
The challenge, he said, was to convert visitors into money-spending consumers.
Leslau said he expected the retail revenues to triple over the next five years, the time span in which he expects the centre to reach maturity.
He said Trocadero would seek to convert rental agreements into revenue-sharing deals as leases expire.
Trocadero and Japan's Sega together invested about $77 million in redesigning the centre -- shifting its focus from shopping to entertainment and giving it a flashy, high-tech look -- and installing a SegaWorld virtual reality centre due to open next month.
An Imax 3D cinema is to open in early 1997.
The complex's current entertainment and shopping tenants -- including cinemas, an amusement arcade and a Planet Hollywood restaurant as well as shops -- generate retail revenues of about 125 million pounds ($192 million) a year, Leslau said. Trocadero derives its revenues from the rental income it receives from these tenants.
It recently entered into a joint venture for a Marvel Mania themed restaurant to be built adjacent to the Trocadero. The Marvel Mania restaurant, based on characters from Marvel comics, is a joint venture with Robert Earl's Planet Hollywood and Ronald Perelman's Marvel Entertainment Group Inc.
Trocadero's current rental deals provide guaranteed income that is sufficient to cover the complex's service debt and overhead for the next 22 years, Leslau said.
Trocadero Plc was spun off from property management group Burford Holdings last November. Burford had acquired the Trocadero complex in September 1994 for 94 million pounds ($145 million). At that time the Trocadero was a shopping mall.
"The key to success at the Trocadero lay in its transformation from a shopping mall into a premier entertainment destination," Leslau added.German utility group Viag AG on Tuesday said its net profit this year ought to at least match 1995's 1.32 billion marks ($886.1 million) despite a 21 percent slide in its earnings in first-half 1996.
The diversified group said its pre-tax profit slumped to 1.178 billion marks in the first six months of 1996, but chairman Georg Obermeier stressed that the comparative 1995 figure was swollen by one-off gains from selling off units.
Speaking to a news conference, Obermeier said operating profit had risen 10 percent in the six-month period, but declined to give absolute figures.
He also noted that the bulk of Viag's first-half profit in 1995 was the result of one-off gains from the sale of its 43.4 percent stake in Germany's biggest paper maker PWA and the final consolidaton of its SKW Trostberg unit.
"Overall the Viag group is developing in line with ... expectations. The economic weakness of the winter period had an effect on the cyclical divisions, however growth tendencies are evident again in several areas," Viag said.
Viag also said its group sales expanded by two percent to 21.803 billion marks from 21.375 billion in the first half of 1996.
The group said sales growth was varied across different divisions, with strong gains in its energy units, in its SKW unit's natural fibres division, drinks packaging at its Schmalbach-Lubeca unit and at Computer 2000.
However turnover in aluminium business at its VAW unit and steel trading at its Kloeckner unit had come under strong pressure, Viag said.
Overall packaging sales dropped to 5.9 billion marks from 6.3 billion marks, while the other core business segments -- energy, chemicals and logistics -- posted sales growth.
Viag said it would continue to expand its core business areas and proceed with a range of restructuring and cost-cutting measures.
Group investment in fixed assets dropped to 792 million marks from 913 million marks in the first half of 1996 while group spending on participations dropped dramatically to 178 million marks from 1.49 billion.
In the first half of 1995, Viag and its units bought several major companies including SBI Systems Bio-Industries, bought by Viag's chemicals division and a majority stake in Computer 2000.
Viag's workforce was little changed at 82,874 compared with 84,939 in the first six months of 1995.
($1=1.4895 Mark)Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in Britain and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in Britain or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.
Fleet will provide U.S. dollar accounts and cash management services to the U.S. subsidiaries and offices of British-based companies. Fleet currently markets U.S. cash management services directly to British companies from its office in London.
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in Britain and is the second largest retail bank in the country with over 2,000 branches.Daily Mail and General Trust Plc expanded its informaiton publishing interests on Tuesday by paying 9.2 million stg for a 40 percent stake in the British Study Group Ltd.
The deal allows the group to become a wholly owned subsidiary by the year 2002 based on a payment which is related to the company's performance. This would value the acquisition at 23 milion stg in total.
DMGT has paid three million cash and the balance through the issue of loan notes.
The group made a 1.3 million 1995 pretax profit.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717China is urging its colour television producers to end a price war, saying it is hurting the domestic industry and helping foreign brands, the Economic Daily said on Tuesday.
The price war -- touched off in March by industry giant Sichuan Changhong Electric Appliances Co ltd -- was an attempt to counter rampant smuggling of foreign TVs and rising domestic stockpiles, Liu Jianfeng, vice minister of the Ministry of Electronics Industry was quoted as saying.
Smuggling has been a major problem, allowing many vendors to avoid duties and making foreign brands very competitive compared to domestic television sets.
The price slashing has cut into earnings of domestic makers. Major companies in the domestic television market include Shenzhen Konka Electronics (Group) Co Ltd and Hong Kong-listed Nanjing Panda Electronics Co Ltd.
The newspaper did not list any specific measures to be taken but it pointed to high-level government concern over the impact on the domestic industry.
Television makers should upgrade their technology and strengthen management instead of slashing prices to promote sales, Liu said.
The price cuts were putting increasing pressure on domestic producers and some small-scale firms had already been forced out of business, it said.
"The price cuts will cause domestic producers to kill each other off, which is harmful to both producers and the state," it quoted Liu as saying.
Foreign firms that had set up joint ventures in China using high technology and cheap labour would benefit and capture a larger market share, it said.
Foreign joint ventures, however, say they too are victims of the smuggling as they are finding it hard to compete with the illegally imported products.
Smuggled and legally imported sets accounted for 40 percent of the 13.6 million colour televisions sold in China in 1995, official figures show. Foreign brands produced in China had a 24 percent market share and domestic brands 36 percent.Samsung Heavy Industries Co, a unit of the Samsung Group, said on Tuesday it would officially spin-off its commercial vehicle division into a wholly-owned subsidiary on Thursday.
The new company, tentatively named "Samsung Commercial Vehicle Ltd," will have a paid-in capital of 100 billion won, a Samsung Heavy spokesman said.
The subsidiary plans to invest 1.2 trillion won until 1999 in capacity expansion, a statement from Samsung Heavy said. The company expects annual production to reach 50,000 light trucks by September 1998 and steadily increase to 200,000 units.
It also plans to become one of the world's top 10 commercial vehicle makers by 2003.
--Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Whitbread Plc is one tasty investment among a handful of overseas concerns that have drawn the attention of the manager of Artisan Partners international Mutual Fund, Barron's reported.
In its Monday edition, the financial weekly interviewed Mark Yockey, who identified favorite overseas investment candidates, including U.K.-based Corporate Services Group Plc , Sonae Investimentos-SGPS SA in Portugal, and Mexico's Empresas ICA Sociedad Controladora .
Yockey also picked Finland's Aamulehti Yhtyma Oy , Schibsted A/S , based in Norway, and China's Guangzhou Investment Co Ltd .Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.Ireland's largest food company, Kerry Group Plc, said on Tuesday that pre-tax profits rose by 21 percent to 20.0 million punts ($32.08 million) in the first half of 1996, reflecting a strong performance in all divisions.
The group's main ingredients division, bolstered by the $402 million acquisition of U.S. food ingredients group DCA in November 1994, reported a seven percent increase in operating profits to 29.4 million punts.
On the consumer foods side, Kerry Foods reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million punts while operating margins rose to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said in a statement.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.
Kerry said current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.
Chairman Michael Hanrahan said the company would now focus on maximising the potential of its fruit ingredients business on a Europe-wide basis following the acquisition of Ciprial, a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy, in February.
Kerry's debt-equity ratio, which soared to 120 percent following the purchase of DCA, stood at 108 percent by June 30, 1996.
But the 54 million punt acquisition of Ciprial has led the group to revise its end-year net debt target upward. Kerry, which had planned to cut its debt-equity ratio to 70 percent before buying Ciprial, is now aiming for gearing of 90 percent at end-1996.
Kerry announced an interim dividend of 1.265 Irish pence per share. The share price was unchanged at 592 by 1255 GMT. ($1=.6234 Punt)Irish food company Kerry Group Plc said on Tuesday that current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.  
In its half-year results statement, Kerry said it was on target to complete the integration of the DCA food ingredients business in the current financial year.
Kerry acquired the U.S. food ingredients company for $402 million in November 1994.
Earlier this year, Kerry also acquired Ciprial S.A., a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy.
"With the addition of Ciprial, we are now focusing on maximising the potential of the combined Ciprial/Margetts fruit ingredients businesses on a European-wide basis," Kerry said.
Earlier, the group reported a 21 percent increase in pre-tax profits to 20.0 million Irish pounds, ahead of analysts expectations of 19.2 million.
Kerry said that all divisions performed strongly in the first half with turnover increasing by nine percent to 589.4 million Irish pounds.
A divisional breakdown showed that Kerry Ingredients reported an increase in operating profits to 29.4 million Irish pounds from 27.4 million a year earlier.
Sales were up 332.2 million from 299.9 million.
Operating margins slipped slightly to 8.8 percent from 9.1 percent but Kerry said this reflected the inclusion of Ciprial and higher raw material costs.  
Kerry Foods, the group's consumer foods division, reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million on sales of 226.8 million with operating margins rising to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopahty (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.  
Geographically, Kerry said that turnover in its Irish market was static but the group recorded progress in all its major markets.
Irish sales were little changed at 213.1 million against 213.6 million in the same period last year.
But turnover in European markets excluding Ireland rose by 22 percent to 186 million punts, sales in North America increased by nine percent to 190.3 million.
-- Dublin Newsroom +353 1 676 9779Preliminary results July
(in million zlotys unless stated)
JULY
 Group net profit	     4.46 vs   1.43
 Group pre-tax profit	 5.28 vs   1.82
 Group operating profit     2.86 vs     na
 Group sales		   48.57 vs  24.79
JANUARY-JULY
 Group net profit	    25.28 vs  12.60
 Group pre-tax profit	28.42 vs  14.98
 Group operating profit    12.23 vs     na
 Group sales		  252.66 vs 159.06
Note. Full name of the Polish construction and trading company
is Mostostal Export SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Ten billion crowns and 16 years after the first production licence was awarded in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea, oil companies are again eyeing its Arctic waters as a potential source of crude and gas.
But while Norway has revised terms and conditions for exploration to attract renewed investment there, industry sources say the latest licensing round will be make or break for the region.
"The Barents Sea enigma is still not resolved," said an oil company official. "But we're looking at the last major (licensing) round. If it's a success and someone strikes oil, then we will have a new boom in the area. If not, then I think people will cut their losses and give up."
Since 1980 53 wells have been drilled in the southern area of the Barents, yielding nearly two billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or five percent of discovered resources on the Norwegian continental shelf, according to the state Oil Directorate.
More than 90 percent of the finds have been of natural gas, the largest being the Snoehvit field, which holds around 100 million cubic metres of oil equivalent. None have proved to be of commercial interest.
"It's very remote up there and expensive to develop and operate," said an industry analyst. "Given that and the threat to gas prices from liberalisation, you'd be a brave man to start developing in the Barents. There are a lot of other gas plays closer to hand."
Norway, which pumps about three million barrels per day, is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia thanks to fields in the North and Norwegian Seas.
Twelve companies have nominated for blocks they want to see offered under the licensing round, known as the Barents Project.
The energy ministry will invite bids for Barents acreage in the third quarter. Awards will be announced in April 1997.
Company officials said new, more flexible licence conditions for the Barents had helped attract interest.
"The results to date have been less than encouraging, no major economically-viable discoveries have been made," said Matt Toner, exploration manager for Amoco Norway . "But in any (oil company) portfolio it's important to have some frontier, high-risk area and therefore potential high rewards."
Norway's state oil company Statoil, along with working group partners Saga Petroleum , Norsk Hydro, Amoco, Elf and Mobil , has been studying data collected from previous exploration drilling.
"We have reassessed the results from previous drilling and we have decided to continue working towards applying for a concession," said Yngve Vassmyr, Statoil project manager.
"We have a better understanding of the geology and potential of the Barents, but I would emphasise that the risk is still high. A lot of money has already been spent in the area and we should keep that in mind."
Vassmyr said advances in technolgy would help improve commercial viability of any finds.
In the 1980s the economics of development required discoveries of between 315 and 630 million boe. Today new technology means prospects of around 200 million boe -- about the size of the Balder and Njord oilfields -- can be seriously considered, he said.
Others considering applying for concessions are Amerada Hess , Conoco , Enterprise Oil , Neste, Norsk Agip and Phillips .
Industry sources are quick to note the absence of the big oil players British Petroleum , Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Esso from the round.
"It's a question of different priorities for each company, but I think it's significant they are not taking part," said a source at one of the companies considering applying.
"Maybe they've done their homework. There are better opportunities elsewhere to put your money."Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.British Airways Plc (BA) said on Tuesday that it had no plans for new alliances over the next few years, but would extend its global reach by franchising its popular brand name to smaller airlines.
British Airways has an alliance with Australian carrier Qantas Airways Ltd and formed an alliance with American Airlines in June, although this is subject to regulatory approvals and a legal suit by USAir Group, in which BA holds 24.6 percent.
"One of the great challenges of alliance development is the management challenge and I think it would be unwise to take on any more than we can absorb at any one time," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said at an industry luncheon in Sydney.
Reports that BA would look to an alliance with a Japanese airline, notably Japan Airlines, were quashed by Ayling in a speech to the National Aviation Press Club in Sydney.
"I think the Japanese airline industry is an independent industry and I think it will remain a strongly independent industry. If there are opportunities in the future for developing relationships there with other carriers then obviously we will do that," Ayling said.  
However, Ayling said the airline's four-year experiment with franchising its brand name to smaller airlines was successful and would be an area of future growth, providing safety and customer service standards were met.
"It is a way of bringing extended services to customers and of allowing operators of smaller airlines, who would have found it very difficult to survive in this world of global networks, to be more successful," Ayling said.
In June, BA signed its first franchise agreement outside of the European Union with South Africa's largest independent carrier, Comair. Under the deal Comair's eight-jet fleet will use the British Airways name and livery.
Under the existing rules it would have been impossible to acquire or invest more than 50 percent in an airline in South Africa, said Ayling. "South Africa is a part of the world which would not be open to us if we didn't have this deal," he said.
Ayling is visiting Australia to look at the operations of BA's 25 percent stake in Qantas, the national carrier.
Under the alliances with American Airlines and Qantas, BA and its partners fly to over 500 destinations in about 100 countries. Ayling said BA's global alliance could lead to opportunities in other parts of the world.  
"We may see, although this may be some way off, fleet acquisition opportunities, which would make a significant impact on procurement of aircraft," said Ayling.
"Once these agreements are put in place and they are being effectively managed, we will be able to see some things we are not able to see at the moment," he said.
Two weeks ago, BA reported an 11.1 percent rise in first quarter profits to 150 million sterling (US$231 million) on sales of 2.103 billion sterling. It forecast another record year in the year to March 1997.--Chicago Corp analyst Jackson Spears said he started coverage of First Enterprise Financial Group Inc with a buy rating.
--Shares in the consumer and automobile finance company closed up 3/4 at 10-1/8.
-- Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Security Capital Industrial Trust said on Tuesday it has commenced a rights offering for shareholders to buy 6,787,806 common shares at a price of $17.25 per share.
Security Capital's shareholders of record on August 30, 1996, will receive a dividend of one right for each share held, the company said.
Twelve rights will be required to purchase one Security Capital share for $17.25 in the rights offering, which expires on September 24, 1996, the company said. As of the end of the company's second quarter, the company had approximately 80 million shares outstanding.
Proceeds of the offering will be used to repay borrowings under Security Capital's $350 million unsecured revolving line of bank credit and to invest in additional distribution properties in its target markets.
Security Capital Group Inc, Security Capital's principal shareholder and the owner of the real estate investment trust manager, has agreed to exercise in full its rights and may seek to buy additional shares, the company said.The New York Stock Exchange said on Tuesday Allen Group Inc, Newbridge Networks Corp, Rexene Corp and Jenny Craig Inc are unavailable for news pending.
Corimon SACA also is unavailable for after-hours trading, the NYSE said.CORESTaff Inc said Tuesday it had acquired Pacific Data Group,  which it described as the largest independent information technology company in Oregon for undisclosed terms.
COREStaff said it had signed a defnitive agreement to acquire all of the company's issued and outstanding stock in cash.
The temporary staffing company said it expected to close the acquisition by August 31 without giving any more details.
It said the founders of Pacific Data Group would keep running the business.
COREStaff said the addition of the acquired company to its information technology group COMSYS would boost pro forma 1995 revenues to about $220 million.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Electronic Manufacturing Services Group said Tuesday it intends to acquire Hybrid-Tek Inc, a private company based in Clarksburg, N.J.
As part of the agreement, EMSG will purchase all of Hybrid-Tek's common stock, and will pay Hybrid-Tek's shareholders cash and EMSG stock at the closing.
Hybrid-Tek's existing management has agreed to remain in place for the next year. It will continue to operate out of its current location and under the same name.
The final terms and conditions are subject to approval by EMSG's board.GPU Inc on Tuesday filed a shelf registration for up to seven million common shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Net proceeds will be used to repay a portion of the debt incurred by the GPU International Group to acquire its interest in Midlands, GPU said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
GPU may also us the net proceeds to make cash capital contributions ot its subsidiaries, the filing said.
The underwriters were not named in the filing.Novell Inc, saying its future growth and survival is at stake, launched an aggressive push into the Intranet market by introducing IntranetWare, a network platform adapted from Novell's NetWare network operating system to fully open standards for operating corporate Intranets.
The Orem, Utah software company has been the leading vendor of network operating system platform. But its NetWare has a history as a proprietary system, although Novell has made revisions to gradually open it to standards compliant.  
Consequently, Novell has been perceived in the market as out-of-the-loop as the tide of corporate interest in developing Internet-like Intranets has swept through the business world this year.
"Fundamentally our future is at stake here," said Novell executive vice president Steven Markman when asked the importance of IntranetWare's launch to Novell's strategy. "If we are looking for growth, the only way we are going to get it is with open standards, Internet-Intranet based network services tied to network services," he said. "This is survival, it is fundamental."  
With IntranetWare, which will be generally available in October, Novell will be shipping a whole series of Intranet applications and network management tools, including a NetWare Web server, a fast server which integrates Novell's existing Directory Services product, GroupWise 5.0 a messaging and collaboration application, and ManageWise 2.1 an Intranet network management solution.
Executives demonstrating the products at a press conference here said they hope to convince the market that IntranetWare and its associated products combine the reliability, robustness and security features of the old NetWare platform with the open easy-to-access features of an Intranet.  
NetWare has about 55 million users and has been a market leader among corporate networking platforms.
But analysts have said Novell stood to lose that distinction if it did not move into the Intranet direction.
International Data Corp analyst Mark Levitt said Novell would face too much of a risk if it did not answer the market demand for Intranet products.
Indeed, Markman said many customers have asked Novell to make its network products Intranet based.
The question remains, however, whether or not Novell launched its Intranet strategy and products soon enough.  
Some analysts said Novell customers have had to wait a year for direction from Novell about how to migrate from NetWare to an Intranet network and relied on others meanwhile.
"The market is ripe for Intranet solutions and I think they've hit the needs right on. People are going to be more accepting of an Intranet solution from a company with a large installed base like Novell," said Ron Rappaport, research associate at Zona Research.
"The question is are they late."
Markman maintained that Novell is not late, saying that customers are just now figuring out what Intranets are.Madison Sports & Entertainment Group Inc said on Tuesday it has named Kevin Michael Ward co-chairman of the board of directors and has accepted the resignations of Anthony Joffe and William Radcliffe as board members.
The company said it elected Ward, Walter Shaw and Gary Langan Goodenow as new members of the board. Ward will share the duties of chairman with current chairman, chief executive and president Joseph Radcliffe.
Ward is founder of KTL Financial Services Inc and is currently its president. He has also served as president of KTL Sports Management Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Madison.CIGNA International said it named John Billett to the newly-created post of vice president of regional life insurance operations, based in London.
Billett, previously with American International Group Inc, will be responsible for developing and implementing the company's life insurance business strategies in Europe and in selected markets in the Middle East and Africa.
CIGNA International is a division of CIGNA Corp.
--New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.The following are lists of positive and negative earnings surprises compiled by First Call.  Earnings surprises and historical information are provided by First Call.
			 First Call Earnings Surprises
Positive Surprises
------------------	First Call
				   Consensus  Actual
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS   Surprise
S&K Famous Brands  Q2Jul96    0.13     0.17     30.8%
Brown Group Inc    Q2Jul96    0.25     0.31     24.0%
National Picture   Q1Jul96    0.11     0.13     18.2%
Layne Inc	    Q2Jul96    0.25     0.28     12.0%
Shiloh Industries  Q3Jul96    0.28     0.31     10.7%
PHH Corp	     Q1Jul96    0.56     0.61	8.9%
Harnischfeger Corp Q3Jul96    0.74     0.80	8.1%
Toys R Us Inc	Q2Jul96    0.09     0.10	N/A
Negative Surprises
------------------				First Call
				   Consensus Actual
Company Name	 Period    EPS     EPS   Surprise
BioWhittaker Inc    Q3Jul96   0.14    0.13     -7.1%
Designs Inc	   Q2Jul96   0.08    0.04	N/A
			Other Companies Reporting Today
Positive Reports
----------------			     First Call
				   Consensus  Actual
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
Harcourt General    Q3Jul96    1.45     1.45     0.0%
SCB Computer Techno Q1Jul96    0.18     0.18     0.0%
Negative Reports
----------------				First Call
				    Consensus  Actual
 Company Name	Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
None Reported.
Legend:
N/A	All or some data necessary for calculation is
	   unavailable.
N/C	Not Calculable, e.g. divisor (Mean estimate) = 0, and
	   there is more than one estimate.
N+	 Actual EPS is larger than Mean estimate. Mean
	   estimate is negative or zero.
N-	 Actual EPS is smaller than Mean estimate. Mean
	   estimate is negative or zero.Pearson Plc, parent company of Madame Tussauds wax museum, is one of four companies bidding to operate a visitor centre at Britain's historic Stonehenge, according to a published report.
The Tussauds division of Pearson, along with Heritage Projects, the Imagination Group and the York Consortium have been short-listed for the contract to design, build, finance and operate a visitor centre at the 5,000 year old monument, the Guardian reported. English Heritage is responsible for Stonehenge.
Heritage Projects manages the Jorvik Viking centre in York. The Imagination Group has been selected as the festival designer for Britian's Millennium Exhibition in Greenwich and the York Consortium is involved in heritage projects in Britain and overseas. The Stonehenge visitor centre would be located outside and park and would probably include a light railway to take visitors to an observation point a half-mile from the historic site, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Yr ended June 30, 1996
			(million rand unless stated)
Shr (cts)
    - headline		     19.9	 vs     17.2
    - attrib			 10.4	 vs     17.2
    Div (cts)	3.25 making 5.75	 vs     5.0
    Attrib income		  8.17	 vs     12.32
    Pre-tax			 11.78	 vs     13.15
    Tax				3.63	 vs     0.83
    Interest paid		  2.05	 vs     1.68
    Turnover		     286.76	 vs     199.93
    Share of associates'	 0.02	 vs     nil
    Goodwill written off	 7.41 loss  vs     nil
Div payable September 6
on register September 23
Full name: Control Instruments Group Ltd
NOTE - The group said it had adopted a conservative policy in its treatment of goodwill and had written off the amounts.
It said although the difficult trading conditions encountered during the last quarter of the year under review were expected to continue, it was confident that it should maintain growth in the current financial year.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Deep staffing cuts and slightly higher banking service revenues led Brazil's Bamerindus to return to the black with a 20.431 million real net profit in 1996's first half, a top bank official said.
The bank, which had reported a 10 million real loss in the first quarter, also ended the January-to-June period with a higher net worth, totalling 1.368 billion reais, up from 1.239 billion reais in the same period last year.  
Mauricio Schulman, president of Bamerindus' board of directors, said the bank reduced its staff by 3,000 employees to 25,142 people in the first half, contributing to drop in administrative expenses to 838 million reais in the period from 948 million reais in December 1995.
"We reduced our costs by 110 million reais in six months, without closing branches, cutting the number of transactions or clients," Schulman told reporters, adding that the bank's annual target is to cut costs by 150 million reais or 12 percent of its net worth.  
Efforts to increase banking service revenues were also part of the bank's strategy to improve its finances. Bamerindus said receipts from banking services rose to 255 million reais in the first half, up from 214 million reais in the same period of 1995.
With the release of positive first half results, Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, expects to rebuild public confidence, undermined by persistent rumors in recent months of the bank's liquidity troubles and speculation that the bank would be sold.  
Schulman said what hurt the bank most were the market rumors. He said the bank lost 1.585 billion reais in total deposits from 1995's first half to this year's same period.
Time deposits fell to 1.785 billion reais in the first half from 4.440 billion reais in the same period a year ago, according to Bamerindus' balance sheet.
"We lost time deposits because of the rumors. We lost essentially institutional clients like pension funds and multinationals," he said.  
Schulman recognized the liquidity troubles, but he said he expects liquidity to improve once Bamerindus gets a central bank loan backed by its own assets or it sells holdings.
"We are showing our situation to the central bank," he said, noting that Bamerindus has been in talks with the central bank.
Schulman said the bank has about 2.0 billion reais in government debt paper that could be sold or used to back the loan.  
Bamerindus has already raised about 500 million reais by selling stakes in steel mills CSN and Usiminas and home appliance maker Refripar.
Schulman denied, however, that Bamerindus was considering transferring control of the bank or selling parts of it as ways of bailing out the institution.
"We do not imagine selling parts of the bank and we have not held any talk with other banks (to transfer control)," he said.
Schulman also said Bamerindus Group's recent reorganization of assets will strenghten the bank.
Under the restructuring plan, completed at the end of June but only announced in July, Bamerindus' profitable insurance firm was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
The restructuring had little impact on the bank's first half results, but he noted "the effects will be stronger in the second half."
-- Sao Paulo newsroom, 55-11-2324411Private Brazilian bank Bamerindus is likely to post a 20 million real net profit in the first six months of the year, O Globo newspaper said.
Bamerindus is due to send its first half results to Brazil's Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) today and to publish the balance sheet Wednesday.
O Globo said Bamerindus' recent reorganization of assets allowed the bank to close the January-to-June period in the black.  
Last month, Bamerindus Group unveiled a restructuring plan under which Bamerindus' profitable insurance company was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
Despite the positive results, the Central Bank will require an injection of at least 1.0 billion reais in the bank to solve Bamerindus' liquidity troubles, O Globo said.
Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, has been in recent months plagued by rumors of liquidity problems and speculation that the bank would be sold.
Veja weekly magazine over the weekend said government officials were considering two alternatives for the bank: the sale to a private bank or a group of banks, or the intervention by the central bank followed by the use of PROER credits to encourage potential buyers.  
Veja also said private banks Bradesco, Banco Itau and Banco Safra would be studying the purchase of the bank.
Bamerindus press officials, however, denied any talks with other financial institutions to transfer the control of the bank.
-- Fatima Cristina, Sao Paulo newroom, 55-11-2324411Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit/loss	    (17.72)   vs  11.17
    Group shares (cents)     ( 4.92)   vs   3.10
    Turnover		     216.41    vs 313.12
    Interest expenses	    4.34    vs   1.06
    Pretax			 (17.92)   vs  11.48
    Tax				0.02    vs   0.31
    Extraordinaries	    (15.00)   vs   nil
    Minorities		     0.22    vs   nil
Note- Media company Aztech Systems Ltd said the extraordinary loss was incurred by a write-off of its investment in Reveal Computers Products Inc.
- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Medical appliance maker Guangdong Weida Group Co Ltd has received approval to list 13.875 million A shares in Shenzhen on August 23, the China Securities Bulletin reported on Tuesday.
The A shares were issued at 7.38 yuan per share in Jieyang city, southern Guangdong province, earlier this month, the bulletin quoted a company spokesman as saying.
Weida will list 1.125 million staff shares, offered at 1.60 yuan per share in 1994, along with the class A stock.
Weida's issue of the A stock has a projected price/earnings ratio of 12.51 times based on forecast net earnings per share of 0.59 yuan for 1996, the company said.
Following its recent A share offer, Weida's total share capital has been expanded to 58.875 million shares, including 30 million state shares, 13.875 million legal person shares and 1.125 million staff shares.
Weida plans to use the proceeds from the A share offer to expand its core business.
Weida said it has forecast after-tax profits of 34.95 million yuan for 1996, compared with 16.88 million yuan in 1995 and 11.32 million yuan in 1994.Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of S$ unless stated)
					    1996	 1995
    Net profit			  2.40  vs   1.79
    Group share (cents)	     1.60  vs   1.20
    Turnover			   26.13  vs  25.17
    Interest on borrowings	  1.05  vs   1.39
    Pretax				4.43  vs   3.40
    Tax				   2.03  vs   1.61
Note - Apollo Enterprises Ltd said it expects to maintain comparable results in the second-half of 1996.
-- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Year to June 30, 1996
		   (in millions of S$ unless stated)
    Net profit			   25.34  vs  28.39
    Final dividend		     15.00  vs  14.00
    Group shr (cts)		    42.5   vs  47.6
    Turnover			    224.51  vs 215.48
    Operating profit		   25.29  vs  27.31
    Other income			  9.20  vs  11.09
    Depreciation (expense)	    2.35  vs   2.01
    Pre-tax profit		     34.49  vs  38.40
    Tax				     9.11  vs   9.95
    Minorities		  (loss)  0.04  vs   0.05 (loss)
    Extraordinaries	   (gain)  0.14  vs   0.19 (loss)
    Dividend pay date:	 October 15, 1996
    Last day books open:     October 1, 1996
Note - Robinson & Co Ltd runs a chain of department stores.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore $ unless stated)
    Net profit		     2.44   vs   1.82
    Group share  (cents)	 5.37   vs   4.01
    Group share fully diluted  4.80   vs   3.76
    Operating revenue	   16.48   vs  15.16
    Interest expense	     7.99   vs   7.78
    Pre-tax profit		 3.46   vs   3.10
    Tax				1.02   vs   1.28
Note - Full name of company is Sing Investments & Finance Ltd.
-- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)Crude oil production from Australia's offshore 110,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) Cossack field has been cut back to around 90,000 bpd and could fall further for several weeks, industry sources said on Tuesday.
One scenario suggests production could drop to 50,000 bpd through the last three weeks of September, they said.
The field is not expected to be back at full production until October, the sources said.
They said the main problem behind the cut back was technical difficulties handling associated gas, which is normally exported into the regional gas grid.
Sources said the production has been cut back since last week but might have to be cut back sharply in order to deal with the gas problem and other more minor problems.
One source said the field has managed to deal with the problems for some time but it has now got to the point where corrective measures are needed.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
In mid July, Woodside said regular maintenance work would be carried out on the field in early August.
--Singapore Newsroom (+65 870 3081)Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the banking group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output		    5,994   vs 6,231
of which:
	General building			     4,064   vs 4,422
	Transport and quarrying		    549     vs 615
	Energy and environmental technology    554     vs 442
	Services					 777     vs 752
    Group domestic construction output	 3,729   vs 4,229
    Group foreign construction output	  2,215   vs 2,002
    Group orders in hand			   15,569  vs 13,534
	 of which:
	 General building			    9,412   vs 8,705
	 Transport and quarrying		   640     vs 626
	 Energy and environmental technology   2,297   vs 1,484
	 Services					3,220   vs 2,719
    Group incoming orders			  7,759   vs 7,939
    Group domestic incoming orders	     4,790   vs 4,961
    Group foreign incoming orders		2,969   vs 2,978
    Group new business			     7,742   vs 6,973
of which:
	General building			     4,662   vs 5,319
	Transport and quarrying		    547     vs 730
	Energy and environmental technology    1,371   vs 373
	Services					 1,162   vs 551
    Group domestic new business		  4,767   vs 4,671
    Group foreign new business		   2,955   vs 2,303
    Group workforce				  51,479  vs 47,471
    Group domestic workforce		     24,328  vs 25,202
    Group foreign workforce			27,151  vs 22,269
    Parent construction output		   1,845   vs 1,926
    Parent new business			    1,190   vs 2,086
    Parent orders in hand			  4,906   vs 4,761
    Parent workforce				 12,550  vs 10,991
--Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525Indian software firm Infosys Technologies topped the investment portfolio of Birla Advantage mutual fund in value terms as on June 30, 1996, the fund said in its quarterly report released on Tuesday.
The fund had 77,700 Infosys shares valued at 55.55 million rupees. Birla Advantage is the maiden fund launched by Birla Capital AMC Ltd, a joint venture of India's Aditya Birla Group and Capital Group of the U.S. in February 1995.
Unilever subsidiary Hindustan Lever stood second, with 49,100 shares valued at 40.33 million rupees. Asian Paints and Madras Cements came next.
Seventy-nine percent of Birla Advantage Fund portfolio consists of shares that reached their 52 week highs during the last three months," the report said.
The report quoted Credence, a research unit tracking performance of mutual funds, as saying that Birla Advantage Fund was the best performing fund for the year ending June 30, 1996 out of a total of 58 domestic funds tracked by it.
"The range of performance for the 58 funds is incredibly wide - from plus 21.11 percent to minus 46.86 percent. Further, only three funds could outperform the market over this period," the Birla Mutual report said.
It said the Indian stock market continued to look attractive and appeared poised for an upturn.
It said liquidity had improved significantly over the last few months both in terms of availability and cost of funds.
"The increased availability of money also means a decline in interest rates," it said.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
"It's a good set of figures...some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said. ($1=.6466 Pound)The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Imperial Chemical Industries Plc (ICI) said on Tuesday it had terminated joint venture discussions with the Yu Gang Company of Chongquing, China.
ICI's wholly owned Tioxide Group Limited signed a memorandum of understanding with the Chinese company in December 1995 covering the proposed establishment of a venture to produce titantium dioxide in China.
Tioxide and Yu Gang were, however, unable to reach agreement on the joint venture during their negotiations and mutually agreed not to proceed further, ICI said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday it was considering what to do with its excess capital, after it has completed its stock market flotation planned for June 1997.
Group finance director Roger Boyes told reporters at the society's interim results briefing the Halifax had a tier 1 capital ratio of 14.4 percent.
That would give the society a "reasonably substantial" surplus of capital after its flotation, he said.
He said options to be looked at included acquisitions, special or enhanced dividends and a share buy-back.
"It's quite wrong to say that Halifax is not aware of all the options," he said when it was suggested the society would be most likely to seek acquisitions.
Boyes said Halifax would also look at the best balance between its tier 1 and tier 2 capital, which he said was currently weighted 90 percent to 10.
He said this was expensive, hinting at further issurance of the subordinated debt, which makes up tier 2 capital.
Halifax said it issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113A British electricity consumer watchdog called for more competition in the generation market on Tuesday and said that the country's biggest generator, National Power, should be broken up.
The Chairmen's Group of independent consumer watchdog the Electricity Consumers' Committee also told a news conference that it would be "appalled" if competition in the electricity supply market were delayed beyond the April 1, 1998, deadline.
But it added that generation costs represented more than 50 percent of electricity prices and achieving competition in the market was "a primary goal" for driving consumer prices down.  
Ken Prior, acting group chairman, said he was very concerned that the Pool wholesale electricity market was heavily dominated by National Power and its smaller peer PowerGen. Publishing the group's second annual report, Prior said the generators had made cost savings of about 40 percent but consumers had felt none of the benefits.
"We want competition in generation...We believe National Power...should be broken up," Prior said, adding that the group wants to see the pool "properly representative" of market participants.
"It's all a bit cozy, it seems to us," Prior said.  
The group said it had made a number of recommendations to industry regulator Stephen Littlechild to boost competition, including calling for an independent testing inspectorate to test plant availability. The group also wants to remove payments to plant that is not being used.
Prior said there was no incentive currently to bring down prices, because electricity suppliers could pass on higher generation costs to customers.
Despite the generators' sale of a substantial amount of plant to conglomerate Hanson's Eastern Group electricity unit, there was not enough competition, he said.  
"The Pool governance needs changing to ensure that wider interests are represented," the group said, adding that a Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry may be necessary.
Meanwhile, the Chairmen's Group is focussing on 1998 and lobbying to help ensure that 25 million consumers will be able to shop around for electricity.
On Monday, the country's biggest electricity supplier Eastern Group confirmed that the consensus opinion among the 14 suppliers was for a phased-in competition in the supply market, possibly over 18 months.  
But although Eastern said computer systems would be in place to allow customers a free choice of supplier, the consumer watchdog accused some companies of dragging their feet over preparations for 1998.
The Chairmen's Group, which represents each of the 14 regions in England, Wales and Scotland that have privatised electricity suppliers, said it wanted to indentify the laggards.
"We want a flourishing electricity industry and a fair deal for consumers," Prior said, adding that competition would force suppliers to set up more efficient and sophisticated networks that would bring prices down.  
But he added: "In terms of preparation (for 1998), there seems to be a six month gap between the leaders and laggards."
The chairmen's group wants to finger the laggards with a questionnaire it has prepared. It will then meet Littlechild in September to discuss how to ensure competition stays on track.
Prior said he believed it would be new market entrants, such as supermarkets, that would lead the way in a free electricity supply market. "It is the new entrants we think that will drive it," he said.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Standard and Poor's said on Tuesday it had assigned its AA minus claims-paying ability rating across the operating entities of the new Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
"At the same time, Standard & Poor's removes the ratings of Royal Insurance Holdings Plc and Sun Alliance Group Plc and units from CreditWatch where they were placed May 3, 1996 with negative implications," the agency said in a statement.  
S&P said the ratings reflected:
-- the strengthened business position of the group in the difficult UK market, and a better spread of activities;
-- potentially improved and more stable operating performance primarily through lower expense levels but also through more diverse sources of earnings, provided the under-performance of the U.S. operation is addressed. The full benefits of the merger will become apparent in 1998 and beyond;
-- very good capitalisation - the merger has achieved a strongly capitalized group without the need for additional leverage.  
"Offsetting this to a degree is the initial disruption to activities that can be expected over the next two years as the new operating structure is implemented," S&P said.
"Management will need to keep close control of the integration process whilst continuing to focus on the longer term strategic direction of the new company."
-- International Bonds Unit +44 171 542 8682P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.Pacific Bell, a unit of Pacific Telesis Group, said it had been unable to negotiate an agreement with AT&T Corp to interconnect the companies' networks.
In a statement late on Monday, Pacific Bell said AT&T was expected to file a request early this week with the California Public Utilities Commission for arbitration proceedings in order to reach an agreement.
"We've been trying very hard over the past months to reach agreement on the terms and conditions for interconnecting our networks," said Liz Fetter, president of Pacific Bell's Industry Markets Group. "While we've made progress on many of the issues, several significant ones remain unresolved."
Pacific Bell is negotiating under guidelines issued by the utilities panel for opening up its statewide network to competitors certified to provide local phone service in California.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610The Asia Pacific Resources Internatitonal Holdings Ltd, also known as the APRIL Group, said on Monday its second-quarter results were hurt by lower world prices for pulp and rayon fiber.
The Singapore-based company posted a net loss of $0.14 per share compared to a net profit of $0.11 per share the same period last year. Net sales for the quarter dropped 26 percent to $95.7 million.
The company said the average realized price of blended pulp dropped 59 percent and rayon fell 26 percent compared to last year.
But the company's finance director, Berry Kwock, said he is encouraged by the recovery in pulp prices over the last two months and the improvements in its Riaupulp unit's performance.
"We are also very pleased with the ease with which Indorayon can switch between dissolving pulp and paper pulp production as this allows us to maximize sales and earnings by taking into account market pricing trends," he said.
Higher interest charges in the second quarter also affected the company's profits. The higher charges came from long-term debt obligations incurred during the year.
APRIL Group said it expects the interest costs to be reduced in the second half of the year because of the ongoing conversion to U.S. dollar-denominated obligations.
The APRIL Group, a pan-Asian pulp and rayon fiber producer, said its projects in China are expected to start up in the latter half of 1998.-- Merrill Lynch said it cut its rating on Vesta Insurance Group Inc to near-term neutral from accumulate and kept its long-term rating at buy.
-- Further details were not immediately available.Westinghouse Electric Corp and CBS Entertainment said Tuesday they had created a new entertainment and information channel called "Eye On People".  
Westinghouse and CBS said the new channel, to be launched March 31 will focus on contemporary and historical people who are in and out of headline news.
They said the channel will call on the programming and production resources of CBS News, CBS Sports, CBS Entertainment, EYEMARK Entertainment, the CBS Owned Television stations and CBS Television Network affiliated stations, as well as the CBS and Group W archives.
Westinghouse and CBS said they had also formed a program alliance with cable programmer Discovery Communications Inc for production of program series.
They said Group W Satellite Communications would offer the channel exclusively to multichannel distributors.
They said they will transmit the channel via a digitally compressed channel on Galaxy 7, transponder 9 with Group W Network Services handling production and satellite distribution services.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Chadmoore Wireless Group Inc.
				    Financial Highlights
				  For the Three Months Ended
					     June 30,
				     1996			1995
 Revenues		   $ 643,538		     $   --
 Net (loss)	     (1,421,152)		 ( 727,247)
 Net (loss) per share     ( 0.14)		    ( 0.15)
Weighted average
number of common
   shares outstanding  10,294,494		  5,014,553
				   For the Six Months Ended
					     June 30,
				     1996			1995
 Revenues		   $ 843,961		     $   --
 Net (loss)	     (2,088,570)	     ( 1,238,150)
 Net (loss) per share     ( 0.22)		    ( 0.26)
Weighted average
number of common
   shares outstanding   9,700,120		  4,750,715
				  Balance Sheet Data
				   Jun 30, 1996	  Dec 31, 1995
				 (unaudited)
 Current Assets		$  3,225,595	   $ 1,368,649
 Total Assets		    43,491,752	     5,341,495
 Long Term Debt		   5,309,741	     1,090,188
Total Shareholders'
   Equity			  36,544,205	     3,037,626Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they have signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in the UK or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.  
Fleet will provide US Dollar accounts and cash management services to the US subsidiaries and offices of UK-headquartered companies.  Fleet currently markets US cash management services directly to UK companies from its office in London.
"This agreement is a milestone in making global banking services more readily available, for our customers," said Fleet Financial Group President and Chief Executive Terrence Murray. "It goes beyond existing banking alliances between American and European banks by giving Fleet and NatWest customers access to a full range of international banking services including extensive branch networks in the US, UK and Ireland."
NatWest Chief Executive Bernard Horn said believes the banks' "combined strengths in market knowledge, product technology and customer service will ensure that our customers are provided with an unrivaled product. We can now offer our customers a wider and more sophisticated range of services in the US than previously was available."
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in the UK and is the second largest retail bank in the UK with over 2,000 branches.PaineWebber Group Inc said on Tuesday that Donald Cacciapaglia has joined the firm as managing director and chief operating officer of the investment banking division.
Cacciapaglia, who will serve on the division's management committee, will be responsible for the client coverage process, recruiting, professional development and training, private client liaison, research liaison, strategic planning and investment grade debt new business.
Cacciapaglia joins PaineWebber from CS First Boston, a unit of CS Holding. At CS First Boston, he was chief operating officer of the short and intermediate fixed income trading group.
Before that, he was with Merrill Lynch & Co Inc for 18 years (corrects the number of years from 10).
At PaineWebber, Cacciapaglia will report to Brian Barefoot, director of investment banking.Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the Banking Group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.A new study by Dataquest, a unit of Gartner Group Inc, shows that the worldwide market for consumer electronics semiconductors reached $24.6 billion in 1995.
Prior-year figures were not immediately available.
Dataquest said Toshiba Corp led the market, with nearly $3.3 billion in sale, and a 13.4 percent market share.
Toshiba was followed by NEC Corp, with $2.7 billion in sales and an 11.0 percent market share, and by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd with $1.9 billion in sales and a 7.7 percent market shares.
--New York Newsdesk, 212/859-1610Marvel Entertainment Group Inc said Tuesday it had named David Schreff as president and chief operating officer.
A spokesman for Marvel said Schreff, who is to begin work with the group in September, is the first to fill the positions.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group pre-tax profit			1,178   vs 1,492
    Group sales				   21,803  vs 21,375
Of which
     Energy					 4,885   vs 4,678
     Chemicals				    2,091   vs 1,877
     Packaging				    5,879   vs 6,277
     Logistics				    8,891   vs 8,823
     Other					  246     vs 191
    Group fixed asset investment	    792     vs 913
    Group investment in participations    178     vs 1,485
    Group workforce			     82,874 vs 84,939
NOTE - Full name of German chemicals and energy group is VIAG AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output	    5,900    vs 6,208
	of which: percentage abroad	37.3 pct vs 32.1 pct
    Group orders in hand		   15,600   vs 13,857
    Group incoming orders		  7,800    vs 7,934
    Group workforce			  51,479   vs 47,471
    Group fixed asset investments	179	vs 219
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Philipp Holzmann AG. Holzmann said it orders in hand totalled 13.5 billion marks at end-1995.Six months to June 30, 1996
			   (million punts unless stated)
 Shr (pence)		15.36		  vs 13.30
 Dividend (pence)	 2.396		  vs n/a
 Pretax profit	    8.93		   vs 7.92
 Turnover		   133.06		 vs 119.58
 Tax			  2.52 charge	  vs 2.37 charge
 Net taxed		  6.41		   vs 5.55
 Pay date		   Oct 9
 Div registration date  Sept 4
 Ex-div date		Aug 27
NOTE - Print and packaging firm Clondalkin Group Plc said on Tuesday that it was well placed to maintain progress in all its activities.
Clondalkin said the first-half profit increase reflected organic growth of seven percent due to volume and margin improvements.  
The group said its Irish operations continued to improve with profit growth evenly spread between printing and packaging.
In Britain, profits more than doubled because of the inclusion of the Boxes Group, acquired in September 1995, and because of strong organic growth in the print operations.
Strong profit improvement in the Netherlands counteracted a profit decline in Switzerland where market conditions remain difficult, Clondalkin said. In the U.S., the packaging operations reported the strongest increase.
Clondalkin said it is well balanced in terms of profit mix by currency and exchange rate movements did not materially affect reported earnings per share.
-- Dublin Newsroom +353 1 676 9779Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group pre-tax result		  217 vs 190
NOTE - Full name of Danish airline holding company is SAS Danmark A/S. The company, half-owned by the Danish state, represents Denmark's two-sevenths stake in Scandinavian Airlines System.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33-969650Baloise Insurance Group said it had raised its majority stake in Italian insurer Norditalia Assicurazioni S.p.A. from 77 percent to 95 percent.
A Baloise statement said the public offering launched six weeks ago for a complete takeover of Norditalia had consolidated its position at the Italian unit and given it more leeway for strategic action.
-- Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30.
		    (millions of Swedish crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax result	 1,047	vs    1,036
Group operating revenue   17.442	vs   17,740
Operating expenses	  15,569	vs   15,301
Operating result
before depreciation	  1,873	vs    2,439
Operating result after
		depreciation   1,006	vs    1,600
Net Financial items	    -97	vs     -185
Exchange rate differences     69	vs     -438
Result after fin. items	978	vs	977
NOTE - Full name of carrier is Scandinavian Airlines System, H  which is owned jointly by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark and private investors.
--Oslo newsroom, +47 22 42 50 41BONN, Aug 20, Reuter - Calendar 1995
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group premium income		4,300    vs   3,800
	 Of which
Herold Leben (life insurance)
    Premium income			3,695    vs   3,329
    Sums insured			 79,650    vs   73,630
    New business			  1,146    vs   1,133
    Returns on capital		  1,378    vs   1,184
Herold Allgemeine (non-life)
    Gross premiums			522.1    vs    505.5
NOTE - Full name of the German insurer is Deutscher Herold, the insurance arm of Deutsche Bank AG. The company said that 1994 figures for life insurance business were calculated by adding numbers for Deutsche Bank's former separate life insurance business and Herold Leben's. Figures for 1995 were based on their merged operations.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group pre-tax result	     646.9  vs 1,035
 Group net result		   584.4  vs 1,032
 Securities and forex results     -81  vs   307
 Losses and bad debt provisions  -105  vs   305
Balance end-June 1996  336.5 billion vs 325.5 bln end-June 1995
NOTE - Full name of Denmark's second biggest mortgage credit firm is Realkredit Danmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a full year 1996 pre-tax profit of around 1.3 billion crowns. --Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *
 Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )
 Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945Soon-to-be-floated Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday it was appointing Hartley Sutcliffe finance director and intended to appoint Charles Mackay non-executive deputy chairman.
Mackay will take up his position when the group is admitted on the London Stock Exchange, Thistle -- currently 70 percent owned by New Zealand's Brierley Investments Ltd -- noted in its results statement.  
Sutcliffe joined the Thistle Group as treasurer in 1991.
Earlier, the group reported a first half profit -- before tax and an 87.8 million stg write-down charge -- of 24.1 million stg, 88.3 percent higher than last time.
Thistle said an external valuation of the company's properties had been carried out, valuing the portfolio at 1.69 billion stg. The valuation identified a deficit of 204.6 million stg compared with the values shown in the company's books.
The exceptional item reflected a reduction in value of certain properties below cost, and the balance of 116.8 million stg was deducted from a revaluation reserve, the group said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Command Petroleum Ltd said a water injection well drilled in the Ravva contract area offshore India has indicated additional reserves of oil in the Ravva field.
It said the RD-3 well, the first of five down-flank water injection wells to be drilled in the next two years, intersected a greater than predicted oil column of a gross 210 feet.
There was 172 feet of net oil pay with an average porosity of 24 percent, it said.
The oil-water contact was 43 feet below the previously interpreted field contact and the top of the main reservoir was 89 feet higher than the pre-drill prognosis, it said.  
"Repeat Formation Testing (RFT) indicates that the two main (M30 and M20) reservoirs in the well are in communication with each other and with the equivalent reservoir units in the three producing wells drilled along the crest of the structure," Command said.
This suggested that oil will be efficiently recovered from the reservoir, it said.
A previously undrilled three metre net oil sand with an average porosity of 25 percent was also encountered by the well about 548 feet above the main reservoir.
This sand was not included in the net/gross figures.  
During the field's life, the oil encountered in the main reservoir in RD-3 will be accessed by, and produced through, the crestal wells, Command said.
RD-3 will, therefore, be completed as a dual oil producer-water injector and will be used as an oil producer in the short term, prior to the need for pressure maintenance.
The next well to be drilled is the RE-1 oil development well, it said.
Command said preparations were underway on Tuesday to complete RD-3 after it reached total depth of 7461 feet.  
RD-3 was drilled at inclinations up to 45 degrees although all depths and thicknesses quoted in its report have been corrected to true vertical depths, Command said.
The bottom hole location of RD-3 is about 1100 metres southwest of the RD platform, it added.
Participating interests in Ravva are India's state-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp Ltd 40 percent, Command Petroleum (India) Pty Ltd (operator) 22.5 percent, Videocon Group unit Videocon Petroleum Ltd 25 percent and Marubeni Corp unit Ravva Oil (Singapore) Pte Ltd 12.5 percent.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Shares in the Australian Stock Exchange's banking and insurance sectors continued their climb on Tuesday as investors bought in ahead of a federal budget widely tipped to be a boon for interest rate sensitive stocks.
By midesssion, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) and Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) had all topped six month highs.
NAB shares reached A$12.70, ANZ shares climbed to A$6.70 while CBA shares reached A$11.11 before profit takers emerged.Melbourne broker J.B. Were and Son has issued a long term buy recommendation for News Corp Ltd preferred stock, saying its current discount to ordinary stock was excessive and should narrow in the long term.
The report, prepared by Were analyst Craig Connelly, argues that the discount should narrow as the market becomes more comfortable with the issue of limited voting securities.
"We expect investors to decide to place their faith in a management team, and then look for which security will offer the best value entry into the stock. The limited voting securities offer a premium yield with a higher dividend," the report said.  
At 12.15 p.m. (0215 GMT), News Corp preferred shares were at A$5.35, a discount of A$1.14 or 17.6 percent to the ordinary stock which was trading at A$6.49. The preferred stock pays a minimum 20 percent premium relative to the ordinary dividend.
News Corp has about 977 million preferred shares on issue compared to 1.967 billion ordinary shares.
The company has recently proposed to issue 164 million preferred shares to convert the special dividend shares of its News International subsidiary and to issue about 468 million preferred shares to fund its acquisition of New World Communications Group Inc.  
The Were report said the discount of the preferred stock to ordinary stock had widened considerably since these proposed transactions were announced due to a view that a diminishing proportion of shareholders had control of a growing assset base.
"We believe that this argument ignores the current ownership structure of News Corp - essentially, an investment in News Corp is an investment in Mr Murdoch, his management team, the company he has built and continues to build," the report said.  
In the short term, Were said it expected the discount would remain wide until the market factored out stock 'overhang' from New World Communications shareholders, and focused on long term value being created by acqusitions and business development.
The report also said the issue of additional preferred shares would increase the liquidity of this class of security.
"Liquidity appears to be the issue of prime concern in the U.S. where non-voting securities which are more liquid than the ordinary shares begin to trade at a premium," the report said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800The Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Group has opened its ninth hotel in China, in Changchun, the capital of northeastern Jilin province, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The new five-star hotel cost $81 million and has 450 rooms, Xinhua said.
The group would open three more hotels in China in 1997 and would have 25,000 hotel rooms and $971 million in investment by 2000, Xinhua quoted company officials as saying.
Meanwhile, booming southern Guangdong province has a glut of hotel space, with barely enough travellers to fill just 210 of its more than 830 hotels, the China Daily said.Six months to June 30, 1996
	   (in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit			    14.69  vs  12.84
    Group shr (cents)		    8.87  vs  10.39
    Turnover			     511.04  vs 402.77
    Operating profit		    16.97  vs  15.56
    Interest (expense)		   2.24  vs   0.66
    Depreciation			   1.50  vs   1.18
    Amortization			   1.30  vs   1.28
    Profits from associates	    7.26  vs   3.16
    Pre-tax profit			16.97  vs  15.56
    Tax					3.89  vs   2.69
    Minorities		    (loss) 0.61  vs   0.07 (loss)
    Extraordinaries	     (gain) 0.18  vs   0.44 (gain)
Note - Acer Computer International Ltd is a unit of Taiwanese computer giant Acer Inc.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)China on Tuesday suspended trading of Shandong Bohai Group Co on suspicion of violating accounting rules, the first such case since the Shanghai stock market reopened in 1990, Shanghai Securities News said.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a preliminary investigation of the firm's 1996 interim report, found entries that contravened China's accounting regulations, the paper quoted a CSRC spokesman as saying.
Chinese stock analysts said Shandong Baohai, a domestic A share company, was the first Shanghai-listed firm to be suspended from trading for violation of accounting rules in the five-year history of China's modern stock market.
They said the violations indicated that a handful of Chinese listed firms, which have performed poorly in the past few years, had resorted to irregularities to please investors.
If the trend was not checked, it would damage the image of the nation's stock market, analysts said.
The CSRC spokesman said the amounts involved in Shandong Bohai's case were large.
The commission is investigating further. Trading of the firm's shares will be suspended until the investigation is completed, he said. CSRC officials in Beijing reached by telephone declined to give details.
Shanghai brokers said the problem was linked to the firm's re-evaluation of its fixed assets in its interim report.
The report said a re-evaluation of the company's fixed assets, including a major piece of land, added 185.32 million yuan ($22.33 million) to its capital.
"This apparently violated both Chinese and international accounting regulations," said a veteran accountant with a major Chinese accouting house. "The regulations say that, if a company continues to operate, all its capital should be booked on the basis of historical value."
The report said that, based on re-valued assets, the firm planned to issue a 10-for-10 bonus issue to all shareholders.
Shandong Bohai, which mainly produces and sells material for the energy sector, performed poorly in 1995, with net profit falling by a year-on-year 38.24 percent.
"The company's performance was very poor last year," said a senior stock analyst with a major Chinese brokerage. "It tried to make very generous interim returns to attract investors."  
Analysts said the firm had been punished in the past after it was found to have speculated in trading its own shares.
"If such irregularities are not properly checked, they will greatly damage the image of China's stock market and listed firms," said an analyst with a Chinese business consultancy.
A Shangdong Bohai spokesman declined to comment. "We will cooperate with the CSRC investigation," he said. "After it reaches a conclusion, we will make an announcement."
The last quoted price for the A share of Shandong Bohai was 13.00 yuan at the close of trading last Friday. There was no trading of the stock on Monday.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 57.50		62.00		62.05
 Current	    500    million	   1.00	     974    million
 Net		  400    million	 800    million	 767    million
NOTE - Totoku Electric Co Ltd makes electronic machinery and parts.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		203.00	     203.00	     192.99
 Current	    600    million	   1.00	     419    million
 Net		  320    million	 400    million	 100    million
NOTE - Zenchiku Co Ltd is a leading meat trading company.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 97.00		99.00		95.87
 Current		2.41		 3.81		 3.29
 Net		  970    million	   1.77		 1.66
NOTE - Cleanup Corp is a comprehensive domestic products manufacturer.China's top motorcycle maker on Tuesday announced disappointing first-half results, blaming weak sales, fakes and ferocious competition.
China Jialing Industrial Group reported first-half net profit of 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which increased the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.
Analysts said supply, boosted by fakes and smuggled cycles, was in excess of domestic demand.
Official figures published on Sunday show that China's motorcycle output in the first half was 4.25 million units, up 22 percent on the same 1995 period, with sales of only 3.8 million, up 12 percent.
By the end of June, national stocks had reached 680,000, up 200 percent from a year earlier, and equivalent to one month's production, the figures showed.
In the first half of 1996, Jialing produced 605,623 motorcycles, ranking first in China, the company said.
An analyst with a foreign brokerage said that because of the intense competition Jialing and other major makers had cut prices in both January and April, which had hurt profits.
"Production in China has outstripped demand," he said. "The government wants to consolidate the industry into a few large conglomerates but local governments do not agree, preferring to protecting their own small-scale manufacturers."
"Another factor is widespread smuggling of motorcycles, especially of larger models, in coastal areas and production of fake Jialings," he said. "The market is chaotic and hard for the government to control. Motorcycles are seen as profitable."
While the market potential in rural areas remains large, many major Chinese cities which already suffer from traffic congestion restricting the number of motorcycles, limiting demand.
The company said another factor to hit its earnings this year was the high income tax rate of 33 percent that it had to pay when many of its competitors were paying a lower rate.
"Many of them pay just 15 percent," said a Jialing spokeswoman by telephone from its headquarters in the southwest city of Chongqing. "Our competitors get the lower rate from local governments or from being in special economic zones."
"We have repeatedly asked the central government for a tax reduction but have had no reply so far," she said.
The spokeswoman said it was hard for the government to control the sale and volume of fakes, which include many products and not only motorcycles. "Consumers, companies and the government must work together to solve this problem and it cannot be settled in a short time," she said.
She said sales would pick up in the second half of 1996, with the first part of the year traditionally being a dull season, but declined to give full-year forecasts.
($1=8.3 yuan)Period to June 30, 1996
		    (in million ringgit unless stated)
    Net profit	    1,074.00    vs	  863.53
    Group shr (cents)	94	 vs	   76
    Pre-tax profit	1,801.01    vs	1,475.43
    Minorities   less	46.14    vs less    27.50
    Dividend (percent)     22.0     vs	   20.0
    Customer deposits  59,316.84    vs     52,388.96
    Loans and advances 56,462.78    vs     48,939.50
    Total assets	 94,202.51    vs     81,779.25
    Shareholder funds   5,601.25    vs	4,698.74
Note: Company's full name is Malayan Banking Bhd.Top Chinese motorcycle maker China Jialing Industrial Group reported on Tuesday that first-half net profit was 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement, the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which put up the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.Hyundai Precision and Industries Co Ltd, a unit of South Korea's Hyundai Group, said on Tuesday it won a $18 million order from Japan's Mitsubish Heavy Industries Ltd to make 28 overhead cranes.
Hyundai said in a statement it is scheduled to deliver the cranes to Mitsubish's steel mill in Thailand by August 1997.
-- Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Indonesia's PT Pan Indonesia Bank (Bank Panin) said it posted a net profit of 45.82 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against 30.22 billion rupiah in the same period last year.  
Six months to June 30, 1996
(in billion rupiah unless stated)
    Net interest income		  96.86 vs 78.63
    Other operating income	     38.91 vs 22.26
    Pre-tax profit			 62.07 vs 37.28
    Net profit			     45.82 vs 30.22
    Retained earnings		   174.56 vs 120.96
    Earnings per share (in rupiah)     152 vs 126
Note:The results were unaudited. PT Pan Indonesia Bank, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Panin Group, is a medium-sized bank.Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group operating profit		   61	up 25 pct
    Group pre-tax profit		     61	vs 83
    Group sales				  1,818   vs 1,633
NOTE - Full name of the German haircare products manufacturer is Wella AG. The company said its pre-tax profit of 83 million marks in the first half of 1995 was boosted by 35 million marks due to the release of provisions not required.  
    Domestic sales			     574     vs 533
    Sales abroad				 1,244   vs 1,100
    Fixed asset investments		  49	vs 50
    Employees on June 30		     16,100  vs 16,400
NOTE - Wella said the first six months had been very succesful both in terms of sales and profits. It said its sales growth of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than three percent. It said it had not included non-core business in the first-half accounts becuase of restructuring measures. On a comparable sales basis, sales would have risen by 12.2 percent.
Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market. That exceeded a planned sales rise of five percent. Its sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations.
Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches in that business, Wella said.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax & extra items result 1,264 vs 1,158  
 Group pre-tax profit		1,275 vs  1,077
 Net interest and fees income    4,430 vs  4,319
 Securities and forex results    354   vs    347
 Result of financial items	4,939  vs  4,836
 Losses and bad debt provisions   548  vs    584
NOTE - Full name of second largest Danish banking group is Unidanmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a lower H2 pre-tax & extraordinary items profit than in H1 1996. The result was above analyst expectations.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650Calendar 1995
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group net profit			   51.5    vs 110.4
    Group premium income		     4,300   vs 3,800
Of which
    Life insurance premiums		 3,700    vs 3,300
    Dividend				    20 pct   vs 20 pct
NOTE - Full name of the insurance subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG is Deutscher Herold. The net profit figure refers to the group holding company. The company said the 20 percent dividend represents a payout of 7.2 million marks.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525First six months to June 30, 1996.
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
						     1996	    1995
    Group operating			    26.1    vs    n.a.
    Group pre-tax loss			  3.1    vs    n.a.
    Group net				    50.2    vs    n.a.
    Group cash flow			   142.0    vs    n.a.
NOTE - Full company name is Austria Mikro Systeme International AG. 1995 figures for the group unavailable as AMS' two acquisitions -- SAMES and Thesys -- were realised in the second half of 1995.
    Group sales				1,056.9   vs    n.a.
    Group extraordinary expenses	     0.518 vs    n.a.
    Group tax payments			  18.921 vs    n.a.
    Parent operating			   129.27  vs  110.36
    Parent pre-tax			     128.35  vs  102.15
    Parent net				   102.33  vs  102.15
    Parent cash flow			   186.1   vs   183.6
    Parent sales				 710.4   vs   814.0
    Parent extraordinary expenses	    0.518 vs	0
    Parent tax payments			 25.5   vs	0
    Group incoming orders		    762.4   vs    n.a.
    Group orders in hand		     737.0   vs    n.a.
    Group investment			   240.0   vs    n.a.
    Group depreciation			 190.6   vs    n.a.
    Group workforce			  1,448     vs    n.a.
    Parent incoming orders		   565.3   vs 1,063.3
    Parent orders in hand		    402.4   vs   998.0
    Parent investment			   82.6   vs   138.2
    Parent depreciation			 80.4   vs    80
    Parent workforce			    698    vs   708Six months to June 30, 1996
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
							  1996	   1995
    Group operating				  434   vs     421
    Group pre-tax				    371   vs     386
    Group net (excluding minority interests) 243   vs     216
    Group cash flow				  631   vs     620
NOTE - Full company name is Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG.
    Group sales				    5,295   vs   6,491
    Group depreciation			     384   vs     391
    Group investment				 191   vs     286
    Group workforce				4,811   vs   4,722
    Group balance sheet total		 11,855   vs  12,413
-- Vienna Newsroom, 43-1-531-12 274Six months to June 30, 1996.
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
						     1996	   1995
    Group earnings before interest     1,514.9	1,607.5
and tax (EBIT)
    Group pre-tax			    1,562.6  vs  1,502.0
    Group net				  1,238.6  vs  1,238.7
    Group cash flow (bln ats)		  1.49 vs     n.a.
NOTE - Analysts had forecast an EBIT for the first half of 1.25-1.7 billion schillings.
    Group sales incl oil tax	    47,048.7  vs 45,788.2
    Group sales excl oil tax	    37,346.1  vs 37,416.6
    Group depreciation		     1,712.7  vs  2,065.0
    Group personnel costs		  3,409.9  vs  3,716.0
    Group workforce			  8,663    vs  9,659
    Group balance sheet total (bln ats)  65.01	up 5 pct
    E&P sales excl oil tax (bln ats)	2.77  vs     2.70
    E&P EBIT (bln ats)			  0.11  vs    (0.12)
    Gas sales excl oil tax (bln ats)	5.36  vs     5.53
    Gas EBIT (bln ats)			  0.91  vs     0.90
    Refining sales excl oil tax (bln)    19.87  vs    19.45
    Refining EBIT (bln ats)		   0.10  vs     0.42
    Marketing excl oil tax (bln ats)	9.68  vs     7.81
    Marketing EBIT (bln ats)		  0.02  vs    (0.06)
    Chemicals sales excl oil tax (bln)    2.63  vs     4.27
    Chemicals EBIT (bln ats)		  0.34  vs     0.29
    Plastics sales excl oil tax (bln)     4.38  vs     4.83
    Plastics EBIT (bln ats)		   0.24  vs     0.41
NOTE - Workforce and balance sheet total compared with December 31, 1995.
-- Janet McBride, Vienna Newsroom 43-1-531 12 254Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to slow by more than half, but the industry will still expand at a rate most industries only dream about,according to Compaq Computer Corp.
Sales growth in Europe by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set last year, said Compaq, the world's biggest maker of personal computers.
Compaq Wednesday began selling its Presario line of computers in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.
It hopes the Presarios, which sell for $2,000 to $5,000, will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for PCs.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year, growth was 35 percent," Compaq's Consumer Group vice president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month, the Context research company said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3.58 million.
Compaq was the market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp.'s 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the '90s. About 35 percent of American households now have computers; the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often "crash" and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are easier to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.Shares in British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc hit new year highs on Wednesday as traders cited positive press comment to the pay television operator's 66 percent rise in full-year profits on Tuesday.
The shares were trading at 547 pence, up 12 pence, just below the new high at 548p, which beat the previous peak of 541p.  
The satellite broadcaster said it profits rose to 257.4 million stg and its trumover grew by 30 percent to top 1.0 billion stg for the first time.
Analysts at BZW repeated its buy advice, pointing amongst other things to BSkyB's positive comments on its joint venture with Leo Kirch in Germany.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Hyundai Motor Co Ltd, the flagship of Hyundai Group, said on Wednesday it plans to enter the mini-car market in late 1997.
"We plan to start selling our mini-cars in late 1997 at the earliest," said a spokesman for Hyundai, South Korea's largest car maker.
He said the company would set up new automobile lines in its Ulsan complex capable of producing 120,000 to 150,000 mini-cars annually. The ultra sub-compact cars would have an engine capacity of 800 cc and 1,000 cc, he said.
"We plan to export the 1,000 cc mini-cars to Southeast Asian and European countries, while the 800 cc units would be sold domestically," the spokesman said.
"Domestic demand for mid- to large-sized sedans is seen on the down trend, while that for smaller cars is increasing," he said. "So we have high expectation for the mini-car market."
South Korea's mini-car market is currently dominated by Daewoo Motor's "Tico".
--Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Metromedia International Group Inc said on Wednesday it agreed a joint venture with state-owned Golden Cellular Corp of China to provide fixed wireless telephone systems.
The joint venture is called Mei Ti-Jinfeng and recently received a Chinese license to provide local telephones for homes and businesses supported by wireless technology. The license also covers software and maintenance.
Metromedia uses the Multispan technology developed by DSC Communications Corp which allows customers to be connected without the cost of laying cables.
Only 4.7 percent of Chinese households have a telephone and the government is planning to add 25 million to the network every year for 15 years, Metromedia said.
No financial details were given but a source close to Metromedia said the investment for the project could total tens of millions of dollars. -- Nick Louth, New York Newsroom 212 859 1712Ten powerful high-technology companies are investing in a $100 million venture fund to support startups developing Internet software using Java as a progamming language, The Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday.
International Business Machines Corp, Tele-Communications Inc, Sun Microsystems Inc, Compaq Computer Corp, U S West Communications Group, Netscape Communications Corp and Oracle Corp are among the investors in the Java Fund. It will be administered by venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers.
The widespread endorsement for the Java Fund, which also includes investments from Cisco Systems Inc, Comcast Corp and Japan's Itochu Corp, marks an unprecedented rate of adoption for a single technology across a wide range of high-tech industries, the newspaper said.
"Nothing like this level of adoption and endorsement has ever happened in computing," said John Doerr, a partner at Kleiner Perkins.
Beyond financial investment, companies are also planning on putting their weight behind new technologies in return for getting early access to any breakthroughs.
Java has been hailed as a revolutionary technology because of its ability to create multimedia computer programs that work on all operating systems. Many industry experts believe that may help put an end to Microsoft Corp's dominance of the software industry, which has long relied on the Windows platform that Microsoft controls.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Steelmakers laid off hundreds of thousands of workers in the 1970s and '80s to get lean and mean, but the cuts have industry officials wondering where the next generation of leaders will come from.
What's more, the job cuts and plant closings have left the industry with an image that fails to attract many bright young professionals, industry officials and analysts said.
"I think there is a real shortage of fresh blood in the industry," said Chuck Bradford, a long-time industry analyst at UBS Securities. "It seems to me the industry hasn't been recruiting at all."
Steelmakers did virtually no recruiting during their years of downsizing.
Many top steel executives have worked in the industry for 20 years or more. And though Big Steel's lacklustre image has kept many top business school graduates away, the executives maintain that American steelmakers are efficient, profitable and offer opportunity to young people.
"The U.S. steel industry is very competitive on a global basis... The opportunities are there, but the industry is doing a poor job of projecting itself on campuses," said David Roderick, former chairman of USX Corp., the parent of U.S. Steel Group, the nation's largest steelmaker.
Roderick said the industry will have to do more recruiting in the next decade as the current string of top managers, now in their 50s and 60s, retires. "The industry will find that the string will run out," he said.
Kathryn Shaw, associate professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said the industry's image dissuades many students, even those in Pittsburgh, from considering working for a steel producer. They prefer to seek work considered more glamorous.
"The students I see here want to go work on Wall Street," she said. "It's hard for students to show interest in an industry they don't see as growing.
"Plus the hiring demand just isn't there from the steel companies. They simply don't need young people... they've got enough bodies."
Some experts said not all students were turned off by steel's image, but rather unaware of opportunities offered by the nation's steelmakers.
"We've had no contact with steel companies," said Craig Marks, visiting professor of business and engineering at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Michigan is one of the country's largest steel-producing states.
"Our students are not predisposed toward any particular industry ... they just want a challenging opportunity where they can use their background. I think all the steel companies would need to do is make a pitch."
Some steel executives said that students have shown interest in the industry.
"In the past 10 years, there has not been a year that we haven't hired at U.S. Steel," said Richard Schinagl, U.S. Steel's recruiting manager.
Schinagl said most students who go to work for U.S. Steel have technical or engineering degrees, because steelmaking has become a high-technology business.
He said U.S. Steel also recruits business graduates and has not found it difficult attracting students at the top of their class.
"Seniors today are pretty astute," he said. "We find the industry has a pretty positive image."
Schinagl noted that U.S. Steel President Paul Wilhelm and USX Chairman Tom Usher both have engineering degrees.
"Over the recent past, our leaders have been engineering graduates," he said.Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo
reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with a
year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Pre-tax profit			    3,856 vs   5,332
 Sales					78,059 vs  85,134
 Operating profit			  2,281 vs   4,024
The separate operating units of Volvo report operating
profit excluding non-recurring items for the six months to June
30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				    187  vs   1,580
 Volvo Truck				1,078  vs   2,942
 Volvo Bus				    134  vs     164
 Volvo Construction equipment	   651  vs	 -
 Volvo Penta Group			   57  vs     127
 Volvo Aero Group			    90  vs	91
Other subsidiaries/eliminations
					 CHARGE 131  vs	 9 CREDIT
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	  2,066  vs   4,913
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			2,281  vs   5,561
Sales for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with the
same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				   39,828 vs 42,729
 Volvo Truck				 23,112 vs 25,744
 Volvo Bus				    4,213 vs  3,559
 Volvo Construction Equipment	   6,695 vs	-
 Volvo Penta				  2,002 vs  2,067
 Volvo Aero				   1,962 vs  1,716
Other subsidiaries and eliminations
					 CHARGE 1,546 vs    552 CHARGE
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	   76,266 vs 75,263
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			 78,059 vs 85,134
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017The separate operating units of Swedish vehicle manufacturer AB Volvo report operating profit excluding non-recurring items for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				    187  vs   1,580
 Volvo Truck				1,078  vs   2,942
 Volvo Bus				    134  vs     164
 Volvo Construction equipment	   651  vs	 -
 Volvo Penta Group			   57  vs     127
 Volvo Aero Group			    90  vs	91
Other subsidiaries/eliminations
					 CHARGE 131  vs	 9 CREDIT
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	  2,066  vs   4,913
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			2,281  vs   5,561
NOTE -- AB Volvo is a Swedish vehicle manufacturer.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017CS Holding, Switzerland's second biggest banking group, on Wednesday reported a 26 percent jump in net profit in first-half 1996 but this was lower than earnings growth by its Swiss rivals.
The company, parent to flagship bank Credit Suisse and U.S.-based investment banking group CS First Boston, said group net profit before minority interests grew to 941 million francs ($783 million) from 749 million a year earlier.
It said its reorganisation, including cutting 5,000 jobs, was expected to lead to a sustained improvement in performance in future and was cautiously optimistic for the full 1996 year.
"CS Holding expects the full-year results for 1996 to be better than those for 1995, although provisions for credit risks will remain high and the situation on the financial markets may affect the second-half performance," it said.
At midday, the group's registered shares had slipped by 1.25 francs from the previous 130 franc close in reaction to the figures.
Analysts said the results were below expectations and showed the need for a huge restructuring programme announced by CS last month. But some added that CS Holding could have greater potential than its rivals.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively higher at CS Holding than at the others," analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Banks said.
One stock market dealer said the market was mainly disappointed that CS had made no announcement about selling its stakes in Elektrowatt or private bank Bank Leu. The results were also at the lower end of expectations, he added.
Return on equity rose to 10.5 percent from 9.0 and earnings per share to 4.40 francs from 3.74.
With the half-year reporting season over, analysts agreed that Swiss Bank Corp was the top choice for growth and profits after integrating investment banking arm SG Warburg and launching its own reorganisation in May.
"We have the three big Swiss banks as "hold" recommendations but SBC is the favourite if you have to be in that sector," said John Leonard at Salomon Bros.
CS Holding's net profit growth of 26 percent compared with 36 percent at Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) and 33 percent at the biggest Swiss bank group, Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS).
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," Zurich Cantonal Bank's Bieri said.
CS unveiled plans in July to tighten its mix of bank and financial activities into four core business areas under a new name, Credit Suisse Group, from January 1, 1997.
Some analysts said the quality of CS profits was already increasing, adding that the group had greater potential than rivals UBS and SBC because it was restructuring later.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research said it was positive that commission income, a steadier source of earnings than market trading, now made up 38 percent of all earnings, up from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential (savings and profit growth) because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
($1=1.2022 Swiss Franc)High-tech venture capital powerhouse Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said Wednesday it has created a $100 million fund to invest in start-up firms developing businesses based on the hot new Java technology for the World Wide Web.
Kleiner Perkins -- which since its 1972 founding has created a web of companies similar to Japan's networks of closely affiliated businesses -- named 10 major technology companies, including International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp. ), and Netscape Communications Corp., as investors in the new fund. It said the Java Fund was closed to any new investment.
Kevin Compton, a Kleiner Perkins general partner who will be a fund manager, said the fund aims to improve small firms' access to corporate investors at a time when new product development has been shortened considerably by the frenzy over the Web.
"These companies have to live in Web weeks now, and instead of spending a year, or who knows how long, it takes to get corporate partners, they've got them on day one," he said.
Java developer Sun Microsystems Inc., itself a company launched with support from Kleiner Perkins, is the largest investor in the fund after Kleiner Perkins' institutional investors as a group.
"We could have just let the market take care of this because there's a lot of money in the market right now," Eric Schmidt, chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, said in an interview.
But, he noted, the fund aims to build on the broad enthusiasm over Java, which has been licensed by a wide range of software developers ranging from Redmond, Wash.-based software giant Microsoft Corp. to the Taiwanese government.
"There's a certain benefit that's hard to quantify of having people with a common shared goal, with a clear name and a clear objective," investing together, he said.
Kleiner Perkins said its corporate partners in the fund include leaders in networking, personal computers, Internet software, database software and communications.
In addition to IBM, Compaq and Netscape, the corporate investors in the fund include Cisco Systems Inc., the cable TV companies Comcast Corp. and Tele-Communications Inc. , Japan's Itochu Corp, Oracle Corp., and US West Media Group, Kleiner Perkins said.
Schmidt said the fund, believed to be unique in its concentration on a particular technology, would compare to setting up a venture fund in the late 1970s to collectively finance early growth of the personal computer industry.
The fund is set up to run for 10 years, a relatively long time, and will aim to make an average investment of around $3 million, implying some 25 to 30 investments overall.
The first three Java Fund investments are start-up companies Active Software, Calico Technology and Marimba.
Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the World Wide Web multimedia portion of the Internet. Calico Technology is working on software to enable sales representatives to quote and order products and services.
Palo Alto, Calif.-based Marimba, which was founded in February by four key members of the original Java development team, plans to provide technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
Java was designed at Sun to be a programming language that makes it possible for software using it to run on nearly all the computer systems in the world, making it ideal for the global Internet network of computer networks.
Nearly 50 corporations have agreed to license the Java technology, and Sun Microsystems Chief Executive Scott McNealy estimated that 100 million computers and other devices will be able to use Java by the end of 1997.
Sun has set up a separate division, JavaSoft, to promote Java-based development to expand its reach into new areas, including the huge task of linking older computers to the Internet using Java.
Another area of innovation is expected to be in filtering and ultimately reducing data to make it more usable, along with improving group communications across networks used on the Internet and corporate networks known as intranets.
"What I will absolutely tell you that, over the course of the lifetime of this fund, there will be some set of investments that will be extraordinarily important, none of which any of us can identify right now," Schmidt said.Statement of Earnings
					    Three Months Ended June 30,
							     1996	1995
 Revenue						 $10,721   $9,385
 Pretax Earnings (Loss)				(190)	865
 Net Earnings (Loss)				   (169)	539
 Earnings (Loss) per Share of Common Stock    (0.04)     0.12
Weighted Average Number of Common and
  Common Equivalent Shares Outstanding	   4,323    4,316
(In thousands, except per share data)
NOTE: The full company name is Group 1 Software Inc.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610PaineWebber Inc's Private Client Group said on Wednesday it added Lowe's Cos to its 30-stock focus list.
The focus list consists of stocks rated buy or attractive by the firm's research department, PaineWebber said.
Lowe's, a home improvement retailer, reported 1996 revenues of $7.08 billion and earnings of $1.41 per share. For 1997, PaineWebber estimates earnings at $1.65 per share.With many equities still recovering from July's sell-off, one class of stocks, real estate investment trusts (REITs), has staged a tortoise-like turnaround as investors increasingly opt for slow and steady.
As a group, REITs sharply underperformed the market last year as investors poured cash into volatile technology stocks.
"When you are in a very hot bull market and you see things like technology stocks which are very immature and have very high-growth patterns, REITs are just not as attractive," said Catherine Creswell, real estate analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons.  
With investors playing defense, whether out of fear of a downturn or reluctance to ride out sideways volatility, real estate has emerged as a mutual fund industry bright spot.
According to Mutual Fund Trim Tabs, which tracks mutual fund flows, inflows to Fidelity Investments' $828 million Real Estate Portfolio amounted to $4 million in May, $27 million in June and $33 million in July.
The increases in July were especially noteworthy because "they came at a time when inflows to most funds dipped," said Carl Wittnebert, the publication's managing editor.  
Vanguard Group's recently launched Specialized/REIT Index Fund has also grown substantially, with assets jumping to $143.9 million from $120 million at the end of July and under $80 million at the end of June, Wittnebert said.
This in  a category which, according to data provided by Standard & Poor's, offered an 18.31 percent total return in 1995, less than half the 37.57 percent surge of the S&P 500.
Over the first seven months of 1996, however, REITs have risen 8.06 percent versus 5.23 percent for the S&P 500.  
"We divide REITs into eight categories and all eight of them are outperforming the market right now," said Ed Nicoski, technical analyst at Piper Jaffray. "They really started to come on in mid-June."
Utilities have traditionally served as a haven because of steady income streams and rich payouts. However, that industry is undergoing profound change and several companies have cut dividends as they brace for state-mandated competition.
In contrast, REIT yields have kept to their long-term trend of steady yields.  
"Over time, the average REIT yields have traded in a very narrow band, typically between six and nine percent," said Creswell. "In addition, you tend to get dividend growth of between five and seven percent."
Tax laws call for REITs to derive most of their income from real estate investments, be they debt or equity, and to distribute virtually all net taxable income as dividends. In return, REITs pay no income taxes at the corporate level.American Airlines said on Wednesday it supported USAir Group bid to serve London Heathrow's Airport, saying it was consistent with the "open skies" aviation agreement being discussed by the United States and Britain.  
USAir filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation to serve London's Heathrow Airport from Boston, Charlotte, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
The carrier cited the need for competition in the U.S.-U.K. market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.
USAir, British Airway's existing trans-Atlantic partner, previously filed a lawsuit against the proposed alliance, alleging the deal would monopolize air travel between the U.S. and Britain and undermine USAir's own agreement with BA.  
BA holds a 24.6 percent stake in USAir.
USAir cannot serve Heathrow until the current Anglo-U.S. aviation treaty is liberalized.
American said it remains optimistic that a new "open skies" agreement will be reached, which will make possible new services such as those proposed by USAir.
American Airlines said it expects some Heathrow slots will be available to U.S. carriers under a the new aviation pact, but there may be costs involved.
In 1991, American said it was required to invest more than $440 million to secure limited access to Heathrow.
"While we agree that additional U.S. carriers should be authorized to serve Heathrow, those who seek to fly there must recognize that realization of their aspirations will inevitably be a function of the costs and practicalities with which we and others have had to contend," said Arnold Grossman, American's vice president of international affairs.
The "open skies" aviation talks are set to resume next week in Washington.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610The expectation that President Clinton will approve the regulation of tobacco as a drug by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will heap more weight on tobacco stocks, which are already blighted by lawsuits.
Industry analysts, reacting to the news that broke from Washington late Wednesday, said however that the stock market is more likely to take its cue more from another lawsuit expected to be turned over to an Indiana jury this week.
"I think the stocks probably won't react to this as much as it will to Rogers," said Ronald Morrow at Rodman & Renshaw, referring to Richard Rogers, the plaintiff in the case.  
Dean Witter analyst David Adelman agreed and said an injunction is very likely. "They (tobacco companies) have reasonably good grounds to prevail," he said.
Tobacco shares had been under pressure all day Wednesday after the industry's major companies were named in three more suits filed by state attorneys general seeking recovery of Medicaid funds used to treat smoking-related injuries.
On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Philip Morris Cos Inc, the world's biggest cigarette maker, fell 3-7/8 to close at 87-5/8. RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, settled at 25-3/8, down 1-1/8.  
Loews Corp, owner of Lorillard Tobacco Co, lost 1-1/4 to close at 76-5/8, while UST Inc, parent of U.S. Tobacco Co, lost 7/8 to settle at 30-7/8.
Unfavorable news about tobacco - part and parcel of tobacco investment almost from the beginning - was once automatically assumed to be an opportunity to buy the share cheaper. These days, the tidal wave of lawsuits and government oversight has begun to rattle the investment community.
The most recent broadside came August 9, when a Florida jury awarded $750,000 to Grady Carter and his wife for damages they suffered as smokers.  
Although the sum was a drop in the bucket to a $45 billion-a-year industry, it represented only the second time an award was granted by a jury.
If that verdict is upheld on appeal, it would be the first time a tobacco company has been found liable for its product, something that has eluded attorneys trying to establish class-action suits against the industry.  
"Over the last two years, it has paid investors to buy (tobacco stocks) on the dips. It seems that, going forward, that's going to be harder to do," said Tom Carpenter, a managing director and chief economist at ASB Capital Management Inc in Washington, D.C.
"It's the lawsuits coming at you from all angles. It's the general sense that there's no long-term future for these stocks," Carpenter said, adding, "The declines are deeper and the rebounds are narrower than they were. I just think things are different than they were a year ago."
For traders, the key number is 85. That is the Philip Morris stock price considered by most traders to be the key level of "support" for tobacco stocks on the whole.
That price is the level from which Philip Morris emerged in 1993 on the way to a larger rally, and the price where the stock rested following a heavy sell-off linked to the mass settlement offer by Brooke Group Ltd's Liggett Group Inc last spring.
"There's no telling how investors will value tobacco stocks from here on in. It's certainly not an area where an investor can jump in," said Alan Ackerman, a Fahnestock & Co market strategist.
--C. Thompson  (212) 859-1725Insignia Financial Group Inc said Wednesday it named James Aston chief financial officer and promoted Ronald Uretta to the new post of chief operating officer.  
Aston previously served as a member of Insignia's Office of the Chairman, the real estate services company said.
In addition to Uretta's new repsonsibilities, he will continue to serve as treasurer, the company said.
Uretta will oversee corporate accounting, human resources, corporate facilities management, and information technology.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610Coastal Physician Group Inc said Wednesday it had named President Joseph Piemont to its board of directors.
Coastal also said the board had authorized Piemont and Steven Scott, director and owner of about 30 percent of the company, to recommend an investment banking firm to help it find potential buyers.  
It said the firm would replace Morgan Stanley, which no longer served as lead financial adviser for the company.
Coastal said it was looking to maximize shareholder value by selling assets or the entire company, among other things.
It reported a net loss of $24.9 million or $1.04 per share for the second quarter of 1996, compared with a net loss of $10.5 million or $0.44 per share for the same period last year.
Coastal said Piemont was replacing a member of the board who resigned in easly August.
It also said shareholders would elect two other directors for the nine-member board at their annual meeting September 27.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Temple-Inland Forest Products Corp and Canada's Re-Con Building Products Inc said in a joint statement on Wednesday that they formed a venture to build and operate a cement fiberboard plant south of Dallas/Fort Worth.
The plant is expected to cost approximately $60 million to $70 million, a Temple-Inland spokesman said.
Ownership of the venture is split evenly between Temple-Inland and Re-Con Building, the spokesman said. Re-Con Building is a unit of The Clarke Group, Temple-Inland said.
The plant will be able to produce approximately 240 million square feet per year of cement fiberboard siding and related products and will employ about 90 people, Temple-Inland said.Raleigh Capital Associates L.P. said Wednesday it opposed a debt restructuring by Arvida/JMB Partners L.P. involving a proposed $160 million loan from Starwood Capital Group L.P.
Instead, the Jericho, N.Y.,-based firm said it offered to obtain comparable financing at better terms or make the loan itself to the Boca Raton, Fla., real estate developer.
After that, Arvida/JMB unitholders may choose to accept a cash out of $500 a unit, less any amount distributed as a result of the borrowing, the firm said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
"We can obtain financing at more favorable terms" said Michael Ashner, president of Raleigh GP Corp, a general partner of Raleigh Capital, in a telephone interview.
Gary Nickele, legal counsel of Arvida/JMB's based in Chicago, said he had not seen the proposal and had no immediate comment.
Raleigh currently holds a 19.7 percent stake or 79,701 units in Arvida/JMB, which develops real estate in south Florida. It obtained the bulk of the stake in a $461 a unit tender offer that expired August 1. It offered to buy a 45 percent stake or up to 180,000 units and was joined in the bid by affiliates of investors Carl Icahn and Leon Black.  
In the SEC filing, Raleigh said it presented its "strenuous objection" to terms of the Starwood financing in a meeting with Arvida/JMB officials on August 15. Starwood is a diversified real estate investment firm based in Greenwich, Conn., that owns a 18.6 percent stake in Starwood Lodging Trust, according to a Starwood spokesman.
Under the financing, BSS Capital II, L.L.C., an affiliate of Starwood Capital, would provide the loan, proceeds of which will be used to retire Arvida/JMB's existing debt and make a payout to unitholders of approximately $350 a unit.  
"In our view, the proposed loan terms are excessive relative to present market pricing for this type of facility," Raleigh said. It then offered its best efforts to obtain "superior financing proposals" to benefit Arvida/JMB and its unitholders.
It also said that to ensure that Arvida/JMB does not risk being worse off by rejecting the Starwood proposal should Raleigh fail to get better financing, Raleigh itself will provide "substantially identical financing" to the Starwood proposal.
Arvida/JMB, in a response to the alternate financing offer, said on August 19 that although no agreement had been reached on the Starwood financing, it had agreed not to pursue or negotiate any other offers for a specified period of time.
In July, Arvida/JMB said it had agreed to provide confidential information to two other suitors which were weighing possible bids for stakes in the firm.
---Gene Ramos, 202-898-8399Cahners Publishing Co said Wednesday it has purchased Television Asia and other entertainment publishing assets from Partners in Media, an independent publishing company based in Singapore.
Terms were not disclosed.
Television Asia is a monthly magazine for broadcasters throughout Asia. Cahners also received a 1997 option to buy Partners in Media's Asia Image, a publication covering Asia's production and post-production markets.
The unit will become part of Cahners' Publishing Group. Cahners is a division of Reed Elsevier.Spartech Corp said Wednesday its current backlog stands at a record level of more than $34.0 million, up 12 percent from a year ago.
Based on the backlog, Spartech, which makes thermoplastic materials and polymeric compounds, said it remains cautiously optimistic about the fiscal fourth quarter.
Earlier, Spartech reported earnings for the third quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share, up from $0.16 a year ago. For the first nine months of the year, it earned $0.55 a share, up from $0.45 a year ago.  
"Spartech Plastics, our extruded sheet and rollstock unit, continues to produce excellent results," Bradley Buechler, president, said in a statement. "Third quarter 1996 sales generated by this 11-plant group rose approximately 16 percent as compared to 1995, with solid gains also being recorded in operating earnings."
He added that sales within the merchant compounding group declined modestly during the quarter. Spartech Vy-Cal plastics, a calendered PVC film operation, recorded a strong gain in operating earnings as a result of excellent volume and more stability in the price of raw materials, Buechler said.
The company said the acquisition of the Hamelin Group remains on track, with closing expected on or about September 30. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings almost immediately, David Mueller, chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Richard Branson, founder and head of the sprawling Virgin Group, is locked in a standoff with local officials in Majorca over his plans to develop a luxury resort there, the Financial Times said.
Branson is seeking to build a 20 million stg complex on a 600 acre site on the island's mountainous northwest coast, with plans to convert a mansion into a 60-room hotel.
The dispute with the local village council is about plans to build 10 houses on the property. The village mayor, Antoni Mora, has said a new building code would allow no new construction in rural areas, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717British Airways said on Wednesday it was still considering the implications of the announcement today by estranged partner USAir Group that the U.S. domestic carrier has applied to fly its own services to London Heathrow.
BA noted that USAir's application is in anticipation of Britain and the U.S. agreeing an "open skies" trade pact, which would open up London Heathrow to USAir and other U.S. carriers.
"We welcome USAir's support for an open skies agreement ...and will now be considering the implications of the announcement on the wider alliance between BA and USAir," a senior company spokesman said.Liberty Life Association of Africa said it was "delighted" with interim results and believed it was on track to achieve further gains after adopting the new Financial Soundness Valuation accounting practice last year.
Announcing the results, chairman Donald Gordon said that, while it was not accurate to compare results with the previous half because of the change in the accounting practise:
"It does give an indication that we still feel we are on track on the financial soundness basis for our target 20 percent growth per annum - which is basically our target growth."
"I think we are on track and we are very delighted with our first half-year results," Gordon said.
Liberty Life's net taxed surplus attributable to shareholders jumped 57.9 percent to 667 cents per share from 422.5 cents per share previously.
Total new business written by the Liberty Life Group amounted to a record 2.297 million rand, representing a 26 percent increase over the 1.817 million rand recorded for the comparable period in 1995, he said.
He said Liberty Life would continue to maintain its standards by selling quality products.
"As far as Liberty Life is concerned we are maintaining our standards...and really we are not going to follow all the speculative approaches that some of our competitors are doing," he said. -- Charles Phahlane, Johannesburg newsroom, +27 11 482 1003Yr to June 30, 1996
		    (millions of rand unless stated)
    Shr (cts)			  84.1  vs 51.6
Final div (cts)  20.0 making 26.0  vs 16.0
    Attrib income		   101.01 vs 56.82
    Tax				  70.98 vs 46.69
    Interest earned		   8.75 vs  7.83
    Turnover			1,767.21 vs 1,439.24
Div payable: Oct 16
On register: Sept 13
Full name: Stellenbosch Farmers' Winery Group Ltd
NOTE: The company said it expected trading conditions to become more difficult in the year aheda but remained positive that growth would continue, albeit at a slower rate.
-- Cape Town newsroom, +27 21 252-238Mathomo Group Ltd said it was in talks which could have an in impact on its share price and urged shareholders to exercise caution in their dealings.
It gave no further details in a brief announcement.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Albania's national carrier Albanian Airlines will freeze its operations before the end of September because its hub airport will be undergoing renovation, a senior company official said on Wednesday.
"We are freezing the operations because the government will start the reconstruction of Tirana's Rinasi Airport runway," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters.
"Unfortunately there is only one runway at Rinasi and our company suffers most from the construction. We cannot work during the building process," he said.
The company's 150 employees would be on leave without pay during the "freeze", but the official guaranteed they would be able to return to their jobs when the airline resumed operations. He could not say when the work would be completed.
He repeated the company's denial of a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the airline was suspending flights because it was facing bankruptcy.
He said the airline planned to restart service after the renovation was completed, adding the company's board had convened this week to discuss "how to restart operations after the reconstruction".
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between the state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.After three failed attempts, receivers of Venezuela's bankrupt Aeropostal will take the airline company to the auction block for a fourth time on August 30.
"If none of the other creditors have any objections, the auction will be Friday next week," Servio Altuve, one of the airline's receivers, told a meeting of the board of creditors.  
A base price is yet to be set, but sources told Reuters it would be around $24 million, down from the last auction's $32 million base price.
Five groups of investors expressed interest in the airline during the creditors' meeting: England's World Aviation Group, the Venezuelan-U.S. consortium Alas; a consortium of former Aeropostal pilots and Delta Airlines executives; Venezuela's Zuliana de Aviacion; and the Venezuelan consortium Cavendes- Laser.
The airline's first auction attempt failed in July 1994 when the Venezuelan Investment Fund delcared void an an 80 percent public offering valued at $62 million.
The airline was decalred bankrupt and closed in September 1994.
-- Ana Isabel Martinez, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405New Zealand's Iddison Group Vietnam Ltd said on Thursday it had agreed with Vancouver-listed gold explorer Olympus Holdings to form a joint venture in Vietnam.
The companies will develop Iddison's Na Pai gold project in the Binh Gia District, Province of Lang Son.
Olympus will buy a right to earn a 51 percent interest in Iddison's mining subsidiary.  
Iddison said it negotiated a production sharing contract over the Na Pai prospect in November 1993 with the government owned Vietnam National Gem and Gold Corp and has been awaiting implementation of the new Vietnamese Mining Law prior to the undertaking significant exploration activities.
The Mining Law was enacted in March 1996 and takes effect in September 1996. As a result of the new law, interest has been renewed in Vietnam's mining potential, Iddison said.
The company's consultant geologist said there was potential for open pit mining. A reasonably detailed exploration programme was warranted to further evaluate the potential.  
Olympus agreed to spend US$1.6 million to earn a 51 percent interest in the Iddison mining subsidiary which holds the Na Pai interest.
Iddison will also be reimbursed US$100,000 and Olympus must spend a minimum of US150,000 prior to withdrawing.
Iddison has granted Olympus a first right of refusal over future mining projects developed by Iddison in Vietnam.
Iddison will also receive 200,000 post reconstruction vend-in shares in Olympus in terms of the Vancouver Stock Exchange Listing Requirements, 500,000 additional vend-in shares upon a bankable feasibility study being prepared and a further  
500,000 vend-in shares in the event that 500,000 ounces of gold are discovered on the property.
-- Wellington newsroom 64 4 4734 746The Bank of New Zealand said on Thursday it was arranger of a medium term note programme in the New Zealand market on behalf of General Motors Acceptance Corp (NZ) Ltd.
The dealer group consists of ANZ Banking Group (NZ) Ltd, ASB Bank Ltd, Bank of New Zealand, Citibank N.A. and Westpac Banking Corp.
The programme size is unlimited.  
Notes issued under the programme will have the support of the guarantee of the issuer's parent, General Motors Acceptance Corp New York, and have been assigned an A- rating by Standard and Poor's.
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746If China's economy continues its rapid growth, the mainland will replace Taiwan as the biggest market for Taiwan food giant President Enterprises, the head of its first joint venture in China said on Wednesday.
"If the mainland's development is normal...its politics are stable with no chaos, and the economy grows at nine-ten percent a year, our turnover in China will surpass that in Taiwan," said Tseng Wen-liang, general manager of Shanghai President Enterprises Livestock Food Company.
Tseng's venture, which produces feedgrain, was set up on July 1, 1992, with investment of $14 million. Its local Shanghai partner holds 11.5 percent, Japan's Mitsubishi Corp five percent, and President the balance.
Since then, President has become one of Taiwan's biggest investors in China, with $200 million invested in 15 companies producing biscuits, instant noodles, drinks and other food and industrial products, most sold to the Chinese market.
The massive sums Taiwan companies have poured into political rival China has recently begun raising questions in Taipei.
Last Wednesday Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui said the island needed to avoid over-dependency on investment in the mainland.
Two days later the giant Formosa Plastics Group said it was halting a $3-billion power plant project in China "to comply with government policy".
But Tseng said President was in China for the long haul.
"China welcomes our investments, the more the better," he said in an interview, adding that President was moving the head office of its China operations from Taiwan to Shanghai.
China says some 30,000 Taiwanese businessmen have poured more than $20 billion into China since the late 1980s, attracted by its cheap labour, abundant raw materials and access to the world's fastest growing market.
"We are a long-term investor and our investments are large. Some are profitable and some are just starting and not yet profitable," Tseng said. "We are not like those small investors who want a profit in one or two years."
On the wall of his office hangs a picture of China Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin meeting President's president Kao Ching-yuan in Beijing in 1993.
Tseng said his operations had not been affected by the sometimes erratic relations between Taipei and Beijing. "We have confidence and have not slowed the pace of our expansion."
Prior to Taiwan's first direct presidential election in March, China conducted large-scale military exercises in the Taiwan Straits that included missile tests.
The exercises were aimed at deterring Taiwan from seeking independence. Beijing regards Taiwan as a breakaway province. Both sides say they want unification but on different terms.
"If Taiwan-China relations are blocked, that is very bad for China," Tseng said. "The more economic exchanges (there) are, the better."
Tseng's plant aims to produce 90,000 tonnes of feedgrain in 1996, up from 60,000 in 1993 and rising to 120,000 in 2000, mostly for sale to farmers in the Shanghai area.
His main headaches have been how to get rid of excess workers and the erratic price of corn, his principal raw material, which reached a peak of 18,000 yuan ($2,170) a tonne in 1995 but now has fallen to about 15,000.
($1=8.3 yuan)Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit		    2.98  vs  2.30
    Group share (cents)	 5.0   vs  3.8
    Turnover		     59.70  vs 46.39
    Other income incl int     1.28  vs  0.72
    Interest expense	    0.04  vs  0.13
    Depreciation/amort	  2.10  vs  2.05
    Pre-tax profit		4.31  vs  3.49
    Profit from associates    0.19  vs  0.21 (loss)
    Loss from joint venture   0.21  vs   nil
    Tax			     1.32  vs  0.99
    Extraordinaries		nil  vs  0.35 (gain)
Note - ST Electronic & Engineering Ltd is an associate company of Singapore Technologies Industrial Corp.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)Tiger Medicals Ltd, a pharmaceutical company which makes Tiger brand ointments for relieving muscle pains, said on Wednesday it expects a better second half in 1996 and the full year to be satisfactory.
It said its net profit in the first half of the year fell two percent to Singapore $43.93 million.
Group turnover increased by nine percent on account of higher sales of Tigher brand products in Asia and trading margins were maintained, it said.
But it said the group did not derive any significant exchange gain in the period and so earnings declined marginally by two percent.
Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit		    3.93     vs   4.01
    Group share (cents)	 5.2	vs   5.3
    Turnover		     32.73     vs  30.05
    Interest expense	    0.19     vs   0.15
    Pretax profit		 5.65     vs   5.86
    Tax			     1.41     vs   1.48
    Minorities (loss)	   0.31     vs   0.38
Note - Tiger Medicals Ltd is a pharmaceutical company.
-- Singapore newsroom 65-8703080The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)Six months to June 30, 1996
		   (in millions of S$ unless stated)
    Net profit			    14.15  vs  23.20
    Group shr (cents)		    7.7   vs   12.7
    Group shr fully diluted (cents)  6.8   vs   10.8
    Turnover			     164.11  vs  151.81
    Interest (expense)		   5.51  vs    3.23
    Depreciation (expense)	     4.44  vs    2.70
    Profits from associates	    2.59  vs    3.31
    Pre-tax profit			25.68  vs   30.31
    Tax					7.45  vs    5.50
    Minorities (loss)		    3.80  vs    1.61
    Extraordinary items	 (gain) 7.54  vs    2.06 (loss)
Note - Haw Par Brothers International trades in pharmaceutical products.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)-- Hambrecht & Quist said it raised its earnings estimates for Pediatrix Medical Group Inc after the company's announcement that it acquired a seven-physician neonatal practice in West Palm Beach, Florida.
-- The investment firm raised 1996 earnings estimate to $0.89 a share from $0.87 and its 1997 estimate to $1.23 from $1.14.
-- Hambrecht & Quist repeated its buy rating on the stock.
-- Pediatrix shares closed up 1-1/4 at 46-3/4 on Wednesday.USAir Group Inc's pilots backed the carrier's iniatiative to acquire routes to London's Heathrow Airport.
USAir filed today with the U.S. Department of Transportation for routes to Heathrow from Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Boston, and Charlotte.
The carrier cited the need for competition in the United States-United Kingdom market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.  
"USAir's pilots strongly support our company's aggressive stance toward expanding the airline's international reach," said Captain Bob Gaudioso, chairman of the Air Line Pilots Assocaition Master Executive Council at USAir.
"USAir's proposed routes to London Heathrow will increase competition and directly benefit the consumers and communities we serve," Gaudioso said.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610Novell Inc, a unit of Xerox Corp and WhetStone Technologies have agreed to develop and market a product that would enable users of Novell's GroupWise e-mail system to view, edit and store images at their desktops, the companies said Wednesday.
The agreement will allow Novell's 6.5 million GroupWise users to leverage its e-mail, document management and workflow features for scanned and stored images, according to a news release.
The product, GroupWise Imaging, will integrate Novell's GroupWise 5 Universal Mail Box, Xerox Desktop Document Systems' scanning and imaging technology and WhetStone's production-imaging system.
WhetStone is an affiliate of UICI.NEW YORK, August 21 (LPC) - Leading lenders of syndicated loans to US borrowers, as compiled by Loan Pricing Corp:
Full credit for each deal is awarded to any bank with administrative, documentation or syndication agent title on that deal.
Rank  Lender		     Volume   # Deals     Market Share
				    ($bln)				(%)
1 Chase Manhattan		 165.7	235		   22
2 J.P. Morgan			94.5	 90		   13
3 BankAmerica Corp		 70.8	147		   10
4 Citicorp			   61.8	120		    8
5 NationsBank			54.4	162		    7
6 Bankers Trust		    26.8	 57		    4
7 First Chicago NBD		26.4	 82		    4
8 Bank of New York		 23.2	 45		    3
9 Union Bk Swtzrlnd		23.1	 17		    3
10 CS First Boston		 16.1	 32		    2
11 Bk Nova Scotia		  13.9	 28		    2
12 Toronto-Dominion		12.9	 28		    2
13 Bank of Boston		  11.3	 59		    2
14 ABN AMRO Bank		   10.4	 31		    1
15 Deutsche Morgan Grenfell    10.2	 23		    1
16 CIBC Wood Gundy		  9.4	 39		    1
17 NatWest Group		    7.3	 14		    1
18 Dai-Ichi Kangyo		  6.9	 16		    1
19 Bank of Montreal		 5.9	 13		    1
20 Royal Bank Canada		4.9	 15		    1
21 First Union			4.6	 30		    1
22 Barclays Bank Plc		4.2	 15		    1
23 PNC Bank			   4.0	 29		    1
24 Lehman Brothers		  3.8	 19		    1
25 Swiss Bank			 3.1	  8		    1
26 Indstrl Bank Japan	     3.0	 15		    1
27 Credit Lyonnais		  2.9	 13		    1
28 Commerzbank			2.7	  8		    1
29 Wells Fargo			2.7	 10		    1
30 SunTrust Banks		   2.6	 16		    1
--Michele Walsh, LPC Editorial, 212 489-5455By Neil Winton, Science and Technology Correspondent
Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to more than halve in 1996 but the industry will still be expanding at a rate which most sectors only dream about.
According to COMPAQ Computer Corp, the world's biggest producer of personal computers, sales growth in Europe this year by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set in 1995.
COMPAQ is launching its Presario range of products in Europe. It hopes the Presario will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for personal computers.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year growth was 35 percent," COMPAQ's Consumer Group vice-president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month research company CONTEXT said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3,580,040.
COMPAQ was market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp's 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth 1996 quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the nineties. About 35 percent of American households now have computers, while the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often crash and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are more intuitive to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.
COMPAQ hopes that its Presario range will make a dent in this new mass market.
"(Mass market) consumers are not willing to pick up a manual. We want our PCs to look more like hi-fi or TV sets," said Bouten.
He said the new range had direct access buttons which switch the PC across a range of uses.
"These easy access buttons mean that you can change the PC into a telephone with one touch, then to a fax, or a CD player and back to an Internet connection," Bouten said.
He declined to predict COMPAQ's sales projections.
The Presario range of home PCs sell for between $2,000 and $5,000 and are on sale from Wednesday in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.The UK's Energy Intensive Users Group (EIUG) said on Wednesday it was "extremely disappointed" by gas industry regulator Ofgas's final price proposals for British Gas unit TransCo.
"Energy intensive companies need internationally competitive energy prices to maintain their global market position," said EIUG chairman Ian Blakey in a statement.
"They have made an excessive contribution to British Gas' undeserved profitability since privatisation, and this control will continue to allow TransCo to charge over the odds for their monopoly pipeline".
EIUG combines 10 industry trade federations.
Ofgas published its final price proposals on Wednesday morning. According to Ofgas data, large firms -- defined as those using more than 300,260 therms a year -- now face an average annual gas bill of 567,000 stg.
TransCo's share of this, based on a notional transport route from Bacton in Norfolk to the West Midlands, is 25 percent.
In the first year of price controls, this bill will fall to 539,104 stg, a saving of 27,896 stg, if the Ofgas proposals are accepted. And in the year 2001/2002, the average bill for this group will be 511,835 stg, a saving from current levels of 55,165 stg, according to Ofgas.
While EIUG complains that the proposed cuts are too weak, British Gas argues that they are too draconian.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6412The U.K. government has approved plans to develop the North Sea Dauntless oil field, operator Amerada Hess Ltd said.
In a statement, Hess said Dauntless along with the nearby Durward field will begin production at the end of the first quarter 1997.
Hess said a "gross plateau production rate" for both fields of more than 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) is planned shortly after startup.
It said the fields will be Hess' "fastest ever stand alone development" and will use a floating production storage and offloading vessels permanently moored over the fields.
Other partners in the fields are Santa Fe Exploration (UK) Ltd, DSM Energy (UK) Ltd, British-Borneo Group and Seafield Resources Plc.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 6280The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *  Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )  Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945Shares in Zeneca Group climbed on Wednesday as talk of a possible bid for the company resurfaced, traders said.
But many were sceptical about whether the rumours contained any more substance than in the past.
"It's the same old stories and the same old names but the stock is so illiquid that people can move them up without anyone standing in the way," said one trader.
By 0804 GMT, the shares were up 16p at 15.19 stg, after earlier touching a record high of 15.23 stg. Trading volume was a modest 406,000.  
The weekend press reignited the bid speculation with Swiss company Roche mentioned as one possible predator.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8712Newly-floated Jarvis Hotels Plc said on Wednesday it had bought the hotel trading as Holiday Inn Gatwick East from Scandic Hotels Group for 8.62 million stg cash.
The company also said that room yield had grown 15 percent since March 31, 1996. "Forward commercial bookings for the Autumn reinforce this trend," it noted in the statement.  
The hotel at Gatwick airport has 151 bedrooms, conference facilities and a health and leisure club.
"The acquisition of this hotel demonstrates Jarvis's commitment to offer good value mid-market properties to our corporate and leisure clients and I am confident of its future trading," said chairman and chief executive John Jarvis.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Analysts' estimates of UK company results expected in week ending August 23 include -
COMPANY----------------PFT/DIV/EPS--CONSENSUS----RANGE-------PVS
WEDNESDAY, Aug 21
- No major companies reporting
THURSDAY, Aug 22
 Rentokil	   ** I    PFT	137.7	135.0-141.0   99.2
 Group Plc		    DIV	  1.48	   n/a	 1.23
FRIDAY, Aug 23
- No major companies reporting
NOTES -
** The Rentokil forecasts are pre exceptional and include
two months of profits from BET.
All profit figures are pretax, exclude exceptional items
unless otherwise stated and are in millions stg. Dividends
are total net and quoted as pence per share.
John Sutherland, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7945Morocco agreed to sell four mines, including a silver and copper mine, to the country's largest private conglomerate ONA Group for the equivalent of $75 million, Privatisation Minister Abderrahman Saaidi said.
"After we reached an agreement in principle...we decided to sell the four mines to the ONA Group at 648.8 million dirhams," Saaidi told Reuters on Wednesday.
Morocco launched an international tender in March to sell four mines -- silver, copper, fluorite, cobalt -- in one lot at a minimum price of 648.8 million dirhams.
It also offered to sell a foundry and a manganese mine in two separate tenders.
An official statement would be issued as soon as the "commission of transfer" put its stamp on the accord, Saaidi added.
The biggest mine is Societe Metallurgique d'Imiter (SMI), in which the state offered its majority 69 percent holding or 668,380 shares. It valued the stake at a minimum 448.9 million dirhams.
SMI, in southeast Morocco, has a capital of 96.7 million dirhams and produced 234 tonnes of silver in 1994 out of the country's total output of 259 tonnes.
Upline Securities stockbrokers said they had expected the ONA Group, which already has 31 percent of SMI and varying stakes in the other mines, to purchase the four mines.
"ONA's strategy in the mining sector culminated in 1992 when the company started operating the Guemassa mine, one of the world's lowest cost producing zinc mines. It merged all its mining participations in a holding company called Compagnie Miniere du Maroc, prior to the privatisation of the four mines," Anas Alami, an analyst at Upline Securities, said.
The other mines are copper producer Societe Miniere de Bou-Gaffer (SOMIFER), fluorite mining company Societe Anonyme d'Entreprise Miniere (SAMINE) and cobalt mine companie de Tifnout Tiranimine (CTT).
The state sold 40 percent of CTT, 35 percent of SAMINE and 34 percent of SOMIFER.
The latest available figures for 1994 showed that Morocco produced 36,010 tonnes of copper, of which SOMIFER accounted for 22,932 tonnes, and 85,000 tonnes of fluorite extracted entirely from the SAMINE mine. Manganese production was estimated at at 30,700 tonnes.
The mines were on a list of 114 state enterprises slated for privatisation by end 1998.
($1= 8.6 dirhams)
-- Ali Bouzerda, Rabat newsroom (212-7) 726518Hydro-Quebec said on Wednesday that it agreed with Nordion International Inc, a unit of MDS Health Group Ltd, for the production of cobalt 60 at its Gentilly-2 nuclear power station.
The five-year agreement, which runs from 1997 to 2002, provides for the production of between 15 and 20 million curies of cobalt 60 and will generate millions of dollars a year in revenues for Hydro-Quebec, the Quebec government-owned utility said.
A previous five-year agreement with Nordion (1985-1989) for the production of 18 million curries of cobalt 60 had not been renewed because of an oversupply situation. Cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt 59 that results from the irradiation of cobalt 59 in a nuclear reactor. The production of cobalt 60 has no effect on the output or safety of the reactor, Hydro-Quebec said.
Cobalt 60 is used for treating cancer, sterilizing medical and surgical products, preserving food, combating food-borne illness and decontaminating waste. Nordion supplies more than 80 percent of the global demand for cobalt 60, Hydro-Quebec said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434MDS Health Group Ltd said it signed agreements to acquire Nebraska-based Harris Laboratories Inc and Montreal-based Neo-Pharm Laboratories Inc, which will more than double MDS's revenue from pharmaceutical services to about C$100 million a year.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
MDS said the acquired companies will be integrated with the existing international contract research operations of MDS and managed through newly formed MDS Pharmaceuticals Service, with operations in Canada, Germany, China, Taiwan, the United States and Britain.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100-- PaineWebber raised its rating on Apria Healthcare Group Inc to buy from attractive, a source at the brokerage said.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
-- The stock was up 3/8 at 22-3/4.-- NatWest Securities said analyst Susan Donofrio initiated coverage of the airline industry.
-- "We are quite bullish on the airline industry, given strong underlying fundamentals," she said.
-- said industry capacity will grow 3.4 percent in 1996 and 2.9 percent in 1997.
-- U.S. airlines are in much better position now to raise fares compared to five years ago, and will help offset re-implementation of the 10 percent U.S. domestic passenger excise tax.
-- said airlines with greatest geographic diversity, especially AMR Corp, UAL Corp, and Delta Air Lines Inc, will be better equipped to handle effects of tax.
-- Delta gained 1/2 to 70-1/4, AMR rose 3/8 to 85, and UAL jumped 3/8 to 50-1/8.  
-- initiated coverage of Delta as buy, UAL as outperform, and USAir Group Inc as hold.
-- USAir was unchanged at 18-3/8.USAir Group Inc said on Wednesday it has filed with the Department of Transportation to serve London's Heathrow Airport from Boston, Charlotte, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
The airline cited the need for competition in the United States-United Kingdom market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.Sterling Chemicals Inc said Wednesday that its shareholders approved a merger with STX Acquisition Corp.
STX Acquisition Group was formed by a group of private investors led by The Sterling Group Inc and The Unicorn Group LLC.
Sterling Chemicals is being sold to STX Acquisition Group for $12 per share.
The merger, which was announced in April, is expected to close Wednesday.Brite Voice Systems Inc said it had won a $7 million contract to support a marketing campaign by Britain's Cellnet relaunch Callback, its intelligent messaging service.
Cellnet, a mobile telephone network jointly owned by British Telecommunications Plc and Securicor Group Plc, has purchased four additional Voice Services Director platforms for Callback. It is the largest single order ever for Brite.
Brite said the latest order represented another significant Cellnet investment in Brite's systems, for a total commitment of about $18.6 million during the past two years.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Reliance National and an African-American insurance executive said they plan to form a new property-casualty company to insure public utilities and corporations with commitments to buy products and services from minority-owned business enterprises.
Onyx Insurance Co will be capitalized at more than $5 million and will be jointly owned by Aaron Richardson as the majority common shareholder and Reliance National, a unit of Reliance Group Holdings Inc.
Reliance declined to disclose the size of its or Richardson's stake.  
Richardson, a 29-year veteran of the insurance industry, will serve as the chairman and chief executive of Onyx.
Upon approval by the California insurance department, Onyx Insurance Co will be the only African-American owned property-casualty insurance company in the United States.  
"There is clearly a great opportunity for a minority-owned company with sufficient capacity to participate in the insurance programs of public entities and large corporations," said Dennis Busti, chief executive of Reliance National.
Onyx will retain a small portion of each risk and reinsure the remainder through Reliance National, enabling Onyx to spread its risk and quickly establish a broad customer base.
"There are more than 2,600 property-casualty insurance companies in the United States with a combined net income of over $20 billion and assets of nearly $232 billion," Richardson said.
"Yet not one of these companies is African-American owned. The formation of Onyx Insurance Company is an important step toward African-American participation in the economic mainstream of America," he said.
Richardson is the founder and owner of ARISCO (Aaron Richardson Insurance Services Corp), a San Francisco-based property-casualty insurance brokerage that he formed in 1990.
-- New York newsdesk 212-859-1716Venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said on Wednesday it had closed the KPCB Java Fund, a $100 million venture capital fund focused on Java technology-based companies and related Internet, intranet, networking and communications companies.
In a statement, KPCB said corporate partners of the fund include industry leaders in internetworking, personal computers, enterprise computing, Internet software, database software, and communications.  
The companies are Cisco Systems Inc, Comcast Corp, Compaq Computer Corp, International Business Machines Corp, Japan's Itochu Corp Netscape Communications Corp, Oracle Corp, Sun Microsystems Inc, Tele-Communications Inc and U S West Media Group.
Developed by Sun Microsystems, Java is an open platform technology that enables distributed applications, interactivity, security, and platform independence over the Internet as well as intranets. Forty-seven corporations have licensed the technology.
The initial investments in the Java Fund are Active Software, Calico Technology, and Marimba.  Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the Web.
Calico Technology is a provider of interactive, enterprise configuration products.  Marimba provides technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610The Allen Group Inc said its subsidiary MARTA Technologies Inc had lost a contract with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for centralized automobile emissions testing in the Cincinnati area.
In a statement late on Tuesday, the company said the contract was worth about $11 million a year in revenues to MARTA.
MARTA had received a cancellation notice from the agency that was effective Aug 27. The agency also suspended MARTA's operations under the program effective on Wednesday.
The agency cited "alleged problems" for termination of the contract, Allen Group said.
"We strongly disagree with the state of Ohio's ... decision to cancel MARTA's contract," said Allen Group president and chief executive Robert Paul.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group net result			886 vs  839
 Group pre-tax result		1,326 vs  1,287
 Net interest and fees income    2,072 vs  1,802
 Securities and forex results	-26 vs  236
 Balance end-June 1996	   410,819 vs  398,682 end-June 1995
NOTE - Full name of biggest Danish mortgage credit group is Nykredit A/S. It forecast in a statement full year 1996 operating profit before tax, extraordinary items and portfolio/ currency results of up to DKK 2.2 billion. +45-33969652Year to Dec 31 (in millions of marks unless stated otherwise).
					1995	  1995	 1994
				    (revised)   (original)
 Group net loss		    1,134	  174	 308
 Group balance sheet loss	  952	  nil	 363
 Group loss carry-forward	  363	  363	  55
 Group sales			 3,285	3,288     2,695
 Group output			3,240	3,781     3,131
 Group other oper costs	  1,221	  791	 772
 Group financial result	     39 loss    39 loss   37 loss
 Group loss ord activities     1,187	  227	 276
 Group extraordinary profit	 61	   61	  24 loss
 Group reserve drawdown	    247	  239	 nil
 Group capital decrease	    298	  298	 nil
 Parent net loss		   1,169	  206	 358
 Parent balance sheet loss	 958	  nil	 358
 Parent loss carry-forward	 358	  358	 nil
 Parent drawdown from reserves   271	  266	 nil
 Parent capital decrease	   298	  298	 nil
 Parent other oper costs	   366	  193	 256
 Parent revenue from minorities   36	   46	  37
 Costs from lost absorption   1,090	   311	 277
 Parent financial result	   20	    20	  34
 Loss from ord. activities    1,236	   273	 331
 Parent extraordinary profit     70	    70	  24 loss
NOTE - Diesel engine maker Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG initially reported its 1995 results on April 23, but massive losses that came to light on May 24 led it to make major revisions.
-- Terence Gallagher, Bonn newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			   242     vs 198
NOTE - Full name of the German pharmaceuticals group is Merck KGaA. The profit figure is after tax and minority interests.  
    Group sales (already reported)	 3,444   vs 3,186
    Group capital investment		 235     vs 230
    Group research and development	 316     vs 277
    Group workforce			    28,564  up 1,050
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525The Warehouse said on Wednesday it would begin stocking AEG's range of appliances.
"We have been looking for some time to source a world class appliance range, that would offer our customers real value for money," managing director Stephen Tindall said.  
The managing director of New Zealand's distributor of AEG appliances, Kent Baigent of Kent Baigent Group, said he had also been searching for an innovative way to make their German engineered AEG Appliances more accessible to a wider range of New Zealand consumers.
New Zealand customers were increasingly demanding both higher quality and lower prices.
AEG as one of the foremost brands in Europe is well known for its high performance and quality, and the buying volumes will allow The Warehouse to supply AEG Appliances at the lowest prices ever offered by AEG in New Zealand.  
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746Woodside Petroleum Ltd said on Wednesday repair work would cause crude oil production from its Cossack offshore operation to be reduced by more than half to about 50,000 barrels a day for three weeks in September.  
The curtailment in output would result from the shutdown of the operation's gas export system, a Woodside spokesman told Reuters.
The spokesman said the operation had been mostly producing crude oil at or above its rated capacity of 115,000 barrels a day in recent weeks.
"We're looking at a three-week shut down of the gas export system in September... during that period oil production would probably have to be cutback to around 50,000 barrels a day," the spokesman said. "There is no reason why between now and September we can't maintain full production," he said.  
"We are at the moment capable of maintaining full production," he added
In order to prolong the life of a new dehydration component of the vessel, the repair work is required to rectify faults causing an excess moisture problem, the spokesman said.
"When you shut down the gas export system it means that we have to flare any gas that comes up associated with the oil. Because of limitations on the amount of gas we can flare, we have to reduce oil production accordingly," the spokesman said.  
The joint venture partners in the operation are currently reviewing the repair work, which is likely to occur in the last three weeks of September, the spokesman said.
"We could carry on with constant interuptions to the system, but it's much better to bite the bullet and try and rectify the problem completely," he said.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside, Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.  
Woodside shares were 2.0 cents up at A$7.72 by 1.25 p.m. (0325 GMT).
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Six months ending June 30 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
   Net profit			15.45  vs   22.26
   Group shares (cents)	  13.90  vs   20.00
   Dividend (cents)		 3.75  vs    7.50
    Turnover		    191.47     vs   153.66
    Other income		  4.98     vs     4.89
    Associates		    1.75     vs     3.47
    Pretax			 22.54     vs    30.41
    Tax			     5.97     vs     8.14
    Minorities (loss)	   1.12     vs     0.01
    Dividend register/pay -   Sept 23 / Oct 11
Note - Full name is Jurong Shipyard Ltd.
--Singapore newsroom (65-8703080)Showa Shell Sekiyu KK has started to study the possibility of selling oil products to the rest of Asia, a company spokesman said on Wednesday.
The leading Japanese oil refiner and distributor is owned 50 percent by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
The Shell group has traditionally asked its subsidiaries to concentrate their business in the country where the unit is located.
It revised that thinking this year when it divided its worldwide operations into four blocks, allowing a certain amount of freedom within each area.
The spokesman said Showa Shell has begun to look into the possibility of selling oil products, such as lubricants, in the growing Chinese market.
The study will be made jointly with the Shell group's Chinese arm.The plight of South Korea's home builder Kun Young Construction, seeking court receivership under a pile of debt, signals a further shakeout in the country's construction industry, analysts said on Wednesday.
"Bubbles in the housing industry are bursting so quickly while many contractors are unprepared," said Park Chan-ik, an analyst at Hyundai Securities.
"A downsizing of the industry looks inevitable."
He said many construction firms might be forced to shut down over the next few years unless they shifted to other business lines such as civil engineering, which had good prospects for growth on rising infrastructure investment.
"Some have already begun laying off workers. Others are selling off land for construction or pulling out of the housing sector," Park said.
A construction boom in the late 1980s and early 1990s, sparked by the government's plan to provide two million homes, mostly apartments, more than tripled the number of contractors to 3,000 in the past five years.  
After most of those apartments were completed, demand for new homes fell rapidly and many builders began suffering from falling profits.
Analysts said Kun Young, the nation's 21st largest contractor, was particularily vulnerable because of its over-expansion. It had to offer various perks to win redevelopment projects, a practice that also squeezed Woosung Construction out of business in January.
Woosung was taken over by the Hanil Group.
Kun Young now has more than 400 billion won ($489 million) stuck in construction of 14,000 apartments nationwide.
The company was dragged into many of the projects as it had to cover costs on fixed investment. But interest payments piled up while sales plummeted.
Kun Young defaulted on 1.26 billion won worth of promissory notes on Monday. It avoided bankruptcy by paying the debt by Tuesday, but filed for court receivership seeking protection from its creditors.
The company was near an agreement on Tuesday on a takeover by a consortium led by unlisted Dongsung Construction Co Ltd.  
But its prime lender, SEOULBANK, rejected the deal, casting doubt on Dongsung's ability to write off Kun Young's debts.
"We want a new owner who can fully cover all Kun Young's liabilities," said a official at the bank. "We are willing to endorse Kun Young's plan to seek court receivership rather than letting the company go bust."
He said bankruptcy was unthinkable because of severe damage to Kun Young's sub-contractors and customers.
SEOULBANK was expected to take over the management of Kun Young when the application was approved by the court until a buyer was found, he said.
Court receivership would spark hot competition for Kun Young because it would freeze all Kun Young's assets and debts, analysts said.
"One good thing about Kun Young is that it has more assets than debts," said a broker at Daishin Securities.
Kun Young's current liabilities amount to 550 billion won while assets are 800 billion won.
Analysts said the problems in the industry would linger as long as failing companies were not allowed to sink.  
"The tradition of bailing out failing companies impedes efficient allocation of funds," said Lee Hahn-ku, president of Daewoo Research Institute. "Such a policy does not fit the economy which is opening rapidly to foreign competition."Year to May 31, 1996
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 29.90		28.83
 Current	    525    mln	 540    mln
 Net		  260    mln	 278    mln
 EPS		   60.68 yen	  65.00 yen
NOTE - Otake Corp is a specialist trader of valves, pipe coupling and other piping materials.Year to May 31, 1996
 (Group)	(in billions of yen unless specified)
 Sales		 28.83		vs	   27.27
 Operating	  576    million    vs	  683    million
 Current	    540    million    vs	  489    million
 Net		  278    million    vs	  205    million
 EPS		   65.00 yen	  vs	   58.83 yen
NOTE - Otake Corp is a specialist trader of valves, pipe coupling and other piping materials.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		186.00	     180.00	     176.18
 Current	     10.00		 7.70		 6.68
 Net		    4.00		 3.30		 2.40
NOTE - Showa Aluminum Corp is an aluminium processor belonging to the Showa Denko KK group.Year to June 30, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 28.20		27.40
 Current	    970    mln	 943    mln
 Net		  460    mln	 329    mln
 EPS		   49.49 yen	  35.48 yen
NOTE - Ichimasa Kamaboko Co Ltd is a major marine paste product manufacturer.Year to June 30, 1996
 (Group)	(in billions of yen unless specified)
 Sales		 27.40		vs	   27.78
 Operating	    1.30		vs	    1.26
 Current	    943    million    vs	  633    million
 Net		  329    million    vs	  277    million
 EPS		   35.48 yen	  vs	   29.82 yen
NOTE - Ichimasa Kamaboko Co Ltd is a major marine paste product manufacturer.Year to December 31, 1996
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		  7.33		 7.70		 6.83
 Current	    916    mln	 658    mln	 684    mln
 Net		  586    mln	 477    mln	 499    mln
NOTE - Nippon Ceramic Co Ltd is a top manufacturer of fine ceramics-based sensors.Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.Property concern Asia Standard International Group Ltd said on Wednesday it was planning a US$60 million five-year term convertible bonds issue.
The company said it has invited Merrill Lynch Far East Ltd and Creditanstalt Asia Ltd to lead manage a proposed issue of convertible bonds.
The size of the bonds is expected to be US$60 million with an option granted to lead managers to require the issue of an additional US$15 million bonds, it said.
"The terms of the issue, including the aggregate amount, redemption price, interest rate and conversion terms, have not been finalised but it is currently expected that the bonds will be guaranteed, have a five-year term and be convertible into shares of the company," said chairman Clement Fung in the statement.
The bond is expected to be listed in Luxembourg.
Net proceeds from the bonds are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, it said.
Shares of Asia Standard were untraded at HK$1.54 in mid-morning.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6370Indonesia's PT Bank Lippo said on Wednesday it posted a net profit of 54.90 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against 45.95 billion rupiah in the same period last year.  
Six months to June 30, 1996
(in billion rupiah unless stated)
    Net interest income		   210.28 vs 185.43
    Other operating income		 46.65 vs 40.77
    Pre-tax profit			   78.93 vs 65.43
    Net profit				 54.90 vs 45.95
    Retained earnings		     275.19 vs 182.49
Note: The consolidated results were unaudited. Bank Lippo, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Lippo Group, is one of Indonesia's largest banks.Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit			 185   vs    223
    Group sales				 11,680   vs 11,526
Sales breakdown by division:
    Engineering				  1,374   vs  1,276
    Plant construction			   789   vs    584
    Automotive				   1,477   vs  1,537
    Processing				   1,346   vs  1,503
    Stainless steel flat, nirosta	  2,790   vs  1,946
    Quality steel, sections		  2,433   vs  3,071
    Trading and services		     2,896   vs  3,263
    Other units				    429   vs    453
    Group orders				12,676   vs 12,397
Orders breakdown by division:
    Engineering				  1,498   vs  1,631
    Plant construction			 1,526   vs    845
    Automotive				   1,503   vs  1,568
    Processing				   1,368   vs  1,673
    Stainless steel flat, nirosta	  2,549   vs  1,892
    Quality steel, sections		  2,492   vs  2,898
    Trading and services		     3,082   vs  3,419
    Other units				    431   vs    464
NOTE - Full name of the German Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Calendar 1995 and Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group loss				   1,134   vs n/a
First half of 1996:
    Group profit				 819.6   vs 184.1 loss
    Group loss excl. rescue plan	   108.9   vs 184.1 loss
NOTE - Full name of the German Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG. The company said the effects of its rescue by banks and creditors, carrying forward losses from 1994 and drawing down reserves would completely offset the 1995 loss.
These measures were also responsible for allowing the company to report a profit in the first half of 1996. Excluding the special effects of the 928.7 million mark rescue plan, KHD made a loss of 108.9 million marks in the first half of 1996.
It said this result was better than expected. Particularly in the motor division earnings continued to improve, it said.
The company said it expected group sales in 1996 to match the previous year. It gave no figures. It added that with the effects of cash aid totalling more than 800 million marks it was aiming to achieve break-even this year.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     22	vs 30.2
    Group sales (exluding Nanz group)    4,300   vs 4,100
NOTE - Full name of the German food retail group is AVA Allgemeine Handelsgesellschaft der Verbraucher AG.  
On a same-store basis, sales rose 1.4 percent, AVA said. The company said the first-half earnings decline was caused by start-up costs for new sites.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     185     vs 223
    Group incoming orders		    12,700  up two pct
    Group sales				  11,700  up one pct
    Group workforce on June 30	     72,000  vs 69,000
    Group investment			    1,500  vs n/a
NOTE - Full name of the German steel and engineering group is Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
The company said in a statement that all six business divisions were profitable in the first half of the year. The decline in pre-tax profit in the period was attributed to the weak overall economy, which had a strong impact on the steel industry and related sectors, it said.
Of total investment in the first half, 1.1 billion marks were spent on acquisitions and 400 million marks on investment in plant. As a result, Krupp said financial debt rose to correspond with business volume.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million Sfr unless stated)
 Group net incl minorities  941		 vs 749
 Minorities		     111		 vs 58
 Net profit,exclu minority  830		 vs 691
 Gross income		   6,392	     vs 5,350
 Gross profit before taxes  2,461	     vs 1,978
 Return on equity, ROE, pct 10.5		vs 9.0
 ROE, exclu minorities	9.7		 vs 8.7
Losses, write-downs  depreciation, provisions   1,120	     vs 930
 Taxes			    400		 vs 299
 Net from b/s business	1,768	     vs 1,632
 Net commission income	2,419	     vs 1,908
 Trading income		 1,896	     vs 1,525
  of which forex, metals    527		 vs 470
  of which securities,other 1,369	     vs 1,055
 Investment in companies    44		  vs 79
 Other income		   265		 vs 206
 Staff expense		  2,864	     vs 2,366
 Total operating expenses   3,931	     vs 3,372
 Other operating expense    1,067	     vs 1,006
 Total assets		   483,742	   vs 412,724
 Loans			    200,275	   vs 177,231
 Securities		     87,709	    vs 67,196
 Real Estate		    6,154	     vs 6,144
-- Zurich Newsroom, 41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million U.S. dollars unless stated)
 Gross profit pre-tax	 256		 vs 164
 Group revenues		 1,400	     vs 1,022
 Group expenses		 1,144	     vs 858
 Total assets		   149,410	   vs 133,757
NOTE - CS First Boston is a unit of CS Holding responsible for worldwide investment banking outside Switzerland.
-- Zurich newsroom +41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million Sfr unless stated)
 Gross profit pre-tax	 1,966	     vs 1,679
 Group total income	   4,442	     vs 3,950
 Group total expenditure    2,476	     vs 2,271
 Interest business income   1,440	     vs 1,409
 Commission, fee income     1,545	     vs 1,310
 Trading income		 1,232	     vs 1,054
 Other ordinary income	225		 vs 177
 Staff costs		    1,704	     vs 1,591
 General expenses	     772		 vs 680
 Total assets		   279,427	   vs 244,575
NOTE - Credit Suisse Group is the full-service banking arm of CS Holding. CS Holding's interim report said the financial statement was prepared in accordance with new accounting rules for Swiss banks and include fund manager Credis on a fully consolidated basis. Last year's interim figures have been adjusted for comparison. -- Zurich Newsroom, 41-1-258 7340Tough U.S. tobacco curbs due to be confirmed on Friday virtually eliminate the possibility of Britain's B.A.T Industries following Hanson Plc and demerging its tobacco unit, analysts said on Thursday.
Despite denials of any such plans by B.A.T, speculation that it would seek to ring-fence its financial services unit from the potentially rough ride awaiting its cigarette business has grown since Anglo-U.S. conglomerate Hanson announced in January it would seek to hive off its Imperial Tobacco subsidiary.
The last five months have seen an escalation in planned anti-tobacco litigation since the decision by Brooke Group's Liggett in March to settle a huge class action over its share of possible liability.
Analysts now believe investor sentiment against B.A.T, whose exposure to the U.S. market is much higher than Imperial, has turned to a point that a demerger is now no longer even an option for restoring share value.
"At B.A.T's current price, we calculate that the U.S. tobacco interests are valued at significantly less than nothing," said Chris Hitchings, an analyst at brokerage UBS.
With B.A.T shares having fallen a further 25 pence to 421 after news on Wednesday that President Bill Clinton was expected to endorse new rules to limit youth access to cigarettes, the group is valued well below the sum of its component parts.
UBS's Hitchings estimated that B.A.T was worth some 16.3 billion pounds ($25 billion) on a "sum of the parts" valuation against a current market capitalisation of 13 billion pounds, a shortfall rooted in fears for its U.S. tobacco arm's future.
Eradicate these concerns, and B.A.T's entire tobacco interests covering markets in the Americas, Africa, Europe and the Far East would carry a debt-free valuation of some nine billion pounds.
But even if those fears ease, the investment that the tobacco arm would need to fully exploit attractive new markets in eastern Europe and the Far East would hamper its ability to pay dividends, Hitchins added.
"A low-yielding tobacco stock is not going to be desperately attractive to investors," he said.
But some analysts believe B.A.T may yet be pressured into considering such a move if U.S. tobacco groups RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp and Philip Morris Cos Inc decide to isolate the more threatened parts of their business.
"The catalyst will be what happens to those two," said one analyst who declined to be named, noting that RJR Nabisco had in the past been the subject of unsuccessful break-up attempts.
Other industry observers insist the fears for the global tobacco industry are overdone and that B.A.T, Imperial and privatisation candidates such as Spain's Tabacalera and Portugal's Tabaqueira have strong, long-term markets to tap.
"With the eastern markets available, opportunities in tobacco have never been bigger," Nikko Europe analyst Rowan Morgan said.
He noted that it was "staggering" how far the United States was behind other countries in laying down effective measures to reduce smoking among minors and suggested that the measures due to be endorsed were an understandable attempt to catch up.
"If you want to write tobacco off, you might be surprised," Morgan said. ($1=.6458 Pound)Union CAL Ltd said it has launched a group of hedge funds that will allow smaller investors, instead of only wealthy private investors or large institutions, access to the sector for the first time.
The Helix Group of Funds will initially comprise of three share classes -- a global leverage fund, a currency fund and a volatility fund. Each will aim for returns significantly above leading indices.
"Until now, hedge funds were the investment industry's last great secret but with the arrival of the Helix funds, barriers to investment in these vehicles have been removed," said director Paul Gleeson. The offer period runs from September 1 to October 14 with a minimum $100,000 investment. The offer price is $100 per share, with a two-percent launch discount.
The Global Leverage fund will invest in a core group of commodity-based assets using derivatives and leverage to provide shareholders with absolute returns.
The Currency fund will tap world interbank spot and forward foreign exchange markets and aim to provide "consistent low volatility growth."
The volatility fund "has a more aggressive style of trading" than the other classes and will ride volatility waves to achieve "robust " rates of return, Gleeson said. The company declined to disclose who would be trading advisors for the funds. Initial charges for the funds are five percent, plus a two-percent annual management fee and a performance fee, calculated monthly, of 20 percent on net new highs.
The Helix funds will be registered in the British Virgin Islands and listed in Dublin. The custodian is the Bermuda Trust (Dublin) Ltd, with Union Global Securities Ltd as the investment manager and Union CAL Ltd as the clearing broker.
Dealing and redemption is monthly, and investors may switch classes monthly at no charge.
Union CAL Ltd and Union Global Securities Ltd are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Union Plc.
-- Caroline Allen, London Investment desk, +44 171 542 6414Den Danske Bank on Thursday said that core earnings rose 43 percent in the first half of 1996 but the pace of growth was unlikely to last.
"In the second half of 1996, core earnings, including earnings from insurance operations, are not likely to reach the level recorded in the first six months, but core earnings for the year are expected to improve somewhat on 1995," it said.
Releasing half-year results slightly down on the same period last year, the bank, Denmark's biggest, said that earnings from currency and securities dealing fell by 35 percent.
"Group results for 1996 will be particularly influenced by year-end bond and share prices," it said, making no forecast.
It logged a 1996 first half pre-tax ordinary result of 2.381 billion crowns ($415.2 million), down from 2.537 billion during the same period last year but above the most optimistic of forecasts by a panel of analysts whose estimates ranged from 1.250 to 2.250 billion.
Core earnings were up to 1.793 billion crowns in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1.257 billion during the first half of 1995. Full-year 1995 core earnings were 2.785 billion crowns.
But profit from stocks and foreign exchange slid to 585 million crowns from 906 million in the same period last year.
Provisions were almost halved, to 341 million crowns from 661 million, but the bank quoted its chief executive as saying that they would be likely to rise again in the future.
"Knud Soerensen said that provisions could probably not be maintained at this low level through a normal economic cycle," the report said.
It added that although provisioning in the second half was already likely to show an increase over the first six months, the figure for the full year was expected to be lower than 1995's 1.254 billion.
The bank said it returned 15.6 percent on equity.
The Copenhagen stock market welcomed the report, sending the bank's share up 8.5 crowns to 404.5 after the announcement, although it later settled back to 402.00 crowns.
Soerensen later told Reuters that he aimed to increase group profitability further by a fresh round of cost-cutting, after triiming outgoings by 91 million crowns to 3.067 billion during the 1996 first half.
"We are a little careful about anticipating a continued fall in our costs but we will work with that aim," he said.
Staff cuts of almost 700 to a present force of 11,000 have helped bring about cost reductions.
Den Danske Bank's closest rival, Unidanmark, on Tuesday filed first half profits up 18 percent to 1.275 billion crowns, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. -- Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.735 Danish Crown)Britain's Rentokil Group Plc Thursday reported a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil, with businesses ranging from pest control to security systems, had a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds ($208.2 million) in the six months to June 30, at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change to Rentokil Initial Plc follows the group's 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
Chief Executive Sir Clive Thompson said the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He said Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's revenue more than doubled to 842 million pounds ($1.3 billion) from 400.9 million ($620.6 million) in the year-ago period. Shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence (2.79 cents), up from 1.23 pence (1.9 cents).
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds ($533.0 million) to turnover and 15.1 million pounds ($23.4 million) to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr. 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds (724.0 million) and profit grew by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds ($184.8 million).
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence ($63.78), up three pence (4.6 cents) in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds ($30.9 million).
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.Britain's Rentokil Group Plc on Thursday notched up a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil made a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds in the six months to June 30, just at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change follows the pest control-to-security group's victorious 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
The firm now aims to be called Rentokil Initial Plc.
Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He added Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's turnover more than doubled to 842 million pounds from 400.9 million and shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence up from 1.23 pence.
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds to turnover and 15.1 million pounds to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact on Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds and profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds.
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence pence, up three pence in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds.
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
Plans for the integration of hospital services and hygiene and health care are also well advanced, he said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
But Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals. "We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.
($1=.6460 Pound)---------------------------------------------------------------
		     DAY'S RANGE * SUPPORT * RESTNCE* MA-25 * MA-200
 Ladbroke Group    200-206   *   180   *   206  *  192  *  177
---------------- VIEWS FROM THE MARKET - Aug 22 ---------------
+ Ladbroke shares appear ready to breakout above 206p resistance and to go up to 220p, technical analysts said.
+ The stock's long-term downtrend from 1991 looks to be over and a bullish golden cross pattern -- with the 25 day moving average crossing above the 200 day average -- was made in February. The shares are also starting to pick-up relative to the FTSE 100 index.  
Shares in hotels and leisure company Ladbroke Group Plc look set to climb past this year's peak at 206p and go on to about 220p long-term, technical analysts said.
From a peak of 205p in April the shares have been marking time until their latest surge from 180p in July.
"A move to 220p is expected before the next consolidation phase will be due," said Robin Griffiths, technical analyst at HSBC James Capel.
By 0810 GMT, Ladbroke shares were up a penny to 202p.  
"The stock was in a (long-term) bear trend from 1991 until last November," said Griffiths. "From then on the pattern has been positive and a golden cross was made in February."
By that he implied the stock's 25 day moving average had crossed above the 200 day average and this usually signals a long-term uptrend for the shares.
From chart theory it is said that after a significant share price move, the price tends to retrace part of that move before rejoining the original trend and such retracements are made in certain percentage of the original move.  
For Ladbroke a normal 33 percent retracement of the 80p rise between November 1995 to April this year took the share price to 180p in July and it now appears set to challenge resistance at 206p.
With the relative strength chart -- of Ladbroke's share price divided by the FTSE 100 index -- showing a positive stance, the odds favour a strengthening of the share price, said Griffiths.
"From the July low at 180p we now have a new buy signal confirmed by relative strength," he said.
-- Pradip Mishra, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7954Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it is pleased with its acquisition of rival BET earlier this year and the acquired firm's operations have great potential within the enlarged group.
"We are very pleased with what we have seen...the upside opportunities are excellent," chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told a news conference after the firm's half year results.
Thompson confirmed the group did not plan any major disposals from BET despite having had a number of approaches for most parts of the firm and even Rentokil's own pest control operation.  
"We had approaches from a lot of people for almost every part of BET," he said.
Thompson said the firm had not lost any meaningful business because of the turmoil of the takeover bid. "We are not aware that, as a result of the acquisition, we have lost any significant accounts," he added.
One piece of unfinished business from the BET buy is a legal wrangle with the target firm's former chief executive John Clark. Thompson said Clark would appear in the High Court on October 7 as part of his battle to win 3.3 million stg in compensation for his dismissal.  
Thompson would not disclose Rentokil's compensation offer but said all the other former BET board members had accepted it. "We are surprised that Mr Clark has not accepted what we consider to be a generous offer," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717British Polythene Industries Plc said on Thursday it had bought two Jefferson Smurfit Group Plc subsidiaries for an undisclosed sum.
The trading units acquired were Swains Packaging and Smurfit Packaging Products based in Essex outside London and Manchester, northern England, respectively.Traded options in BAT Industries were active on Thursday as traders took positions while the underlying shares plunged, dealers said.
A belief that, given time, shares in the tobacco-to-insurance group will recover, may have been the reason why one trader bought 1,500 April 460 calls at 25p. Another deal was to buy 1,000 lots in the same series at 27p.
By 1505 GMT, BAT shares were down 21p to 425p.
There was also a seller of a calendar put spread which was established by selling 250 November 500 puts at 74-1/2p and buying 250 January 500 puts at 74p for a net credit of 1/2p.  
This is effectively like having a long put position for next to nothing.
The deals in BAT were prompted by expectaions of stringent moves in the U.S. concerning tobacco companies.
The main trade in supermarket chain Asda Group was the purchase of 1,000 April 180 calls at 8-1/2p. The shares added a penny to 119p and they will go ex-dividend by 1.93p net of basic tax on Monday.
Also active was insurer Prudential Corp  with the November 460 calls particularly in demand from traders buying in lot sizes of 200, 250 and 400 at prices from 12p to 15p.
Prudential shares raced up 18p to 443p ahead of the insurance sector reporting season in September.
Elsewhere, there was a short strangle in retailer Kingfisher achieved by selling 300 February 650 puts at 28p as well as 300 February 700 calls at 24-1/2p.
Kingfisher was 8p better at 668p.
Over in food manufacturer United Biscuits, there was a buyer of 500 November 220 calls at 6-1/2p. The shares added 2p to 211p.
-- Pradip Mishra, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7954Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it is sticking with its 20 percent growth target which the pest control-to-security firm has met for the past 14 years.
"The objective remains," chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told a news conference.
Earlier the firm posted first half results that beat its goal as it saw pre-tax profit rise 35.6 percent to 134.5 million stg. Excluding the contribution from its massive buy of BET, Rentokil said the firm's profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million stg.  
The firm's shares rose on the figures and by 1141 GMT were up 8-1/2 pence to 417-1/2p.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the firm was trying to bring in its management culture to the acquired group. He said BET had been marked by greater independence for its units, while Rentokil concentrated more on high performance and centralisation.
The firm also earlier announced it plans to change its name to Rentokil Initial Plc in an effort to focus its diverse operations around the two brand names of Initial and Rentokil.  
Corporate affairs director Charles Grimaldi said the process of rebranding all of the firm's operations would be a lengthy and gradual one, but that doing it slowly would incur less costs.
"In terms of extra cost it will be very limited...it will not be overnight," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *
 Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )
 Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945British pest control to security group Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it plans no major disposals from its acquired rival BET.
Earlier this year Rentokil won a fierce battle to buy BET for 2.1 billion stg and said that it would consider the future of BET's Plant Hire, Style and Resorts International unit.
But chief executive Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals.
"We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.Shares in Zeneca Group surged to a record in pre-market dealings as speculation about a merger heated up, traders said.
The shares were up 19p to 1533p.  
Talk that Natwest issued a buy note on Zeneca also bolstered the shares, they said. Natwest declined to comment.
The entire British pharmaceutical sector was lifted yesterday by the recurring bid rumours. The latest talk involves Swiss giant Roche Holding AG.
But today, Zeneca appeared to move alone, leaving behind Glaxo Wellcome, which was only up 5p to 918p, and SmithKline Beecham, down 1p to 742p.
"It's just more of the same bid rumours and it seems to be coming from the States," said one market-maker.  
Zeneca's ADRs jumped $1-5/8 to $71 in the U.S. after a strong performance in London yesterday. ADRs in Glaxo and SmithKline rose fractionally.
--Debra Sherman, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4026Engineering firm Weir Group Plc repeated its earlier forecast that the second-half results will be stronger than in the first half and that the group will make full-year progress.
Weir earlier reported that first-half pre-tax profit fell 4.8 percent to 19.2 million stg, partly due to a lower profit contribution from Devonport Dockyard.
"Although the setback at Devonport is not helpful, nevertheless we can see no reason at this time for changing our views (on the full-year outlook)," chairman Viscount Weir said in a statement.
Devonport was hit by significant disruptions to its refitting programme due to modifications to meet increased safety requirements for existing docks.
Additionally, there was a slower than normal settlement of contracts with the Ministry of Defence, Weir Group said.
Beisdes Devonport, first-half results were also hit by a worse performance of Strachan and Henshaw, but this had been expected, Weir said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Half year July 27, 1996
			   (million stg unless stated)
 Shr (pence)		0.18 gain	    vs 1.49 loss
 Dividend (pence)	 2.40		   vs 1.20
 Pretax		     0.05 profit	  vs 0.49 loss
 Turnover		   28.1		   vs 24.8
 Trading profit	   0.57		   vs 0.08
 Interest payable	 0.51		   vs 0.57
 Tax			  0.01		   vs 0.16
 Net taxed		  0.04 profit	  vs 0.33 loss
 Pay date		   December 16
 Div registration date  November 5
 Ex-div date		October 28
NOTE - Goldsmiths Group Plc is a jewellery firm. The firm said the retail trading environment is still fragile, but that the firm is trading well.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday it aims to change its company name to Rentokil Initial Plc.
The move comes after the 2.1 billion stg acquisition of rival BET, which brought with it the Initial brand name, earlier in the year.
"It is proposed to change the name of the company...to reflect the plans to develop two international brands, Rentokil and Initial," the firm said in its first half results statement.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Analysts' estimates of UK company results expected in week ending August 23 include -
COMPANY---------PFT/DIV/EPS--CONSENSUS----RANGE-------PVS
THURSDAY, Aug 22
 Rentokil ** I    PFT	137.7	135.0-141.0   99.2
 Group Plc	  DIV	  1.48	   n/a	 1.23
FRIDAY, Aug 23 - No major companies reporting
NOTES -
** The Rentokil forecasts are pre exceptional and include
two months of profits from BET.
All profit figures are pretax, exclude exceptional items
unless otherwise stated and are in millions stg. Dividends
are total net and quoted as pence per share.
John Sutherland, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7945Ford Motor Co said Thursday it has sold all of USL Capital's Real Estate Financing (REF) mortgages to Bankers Trust Co for about $575 million.
This sale of the majority of REF's assets essentially completes Ford's sale of USL Capital's six business units. Ford said that it expects to receive cash proceeds after taxes of more than $1 billion from the USL Capital sales.
USL Capital, a commercial financing and leasing company headquartered in San Francisco, has been part of Ford's Financial Services Group.  
Proceeds from the sales will be used to reduce the Financial Services Group debt, Ford said in a statement.
Results of the sales will be reported with Ford's third or fourth quarter financial statements, depending on when the separate business unit sales are closed.
The sales of USL Capital's Rail Services and Fleet Services business units closed in July.
The sale of the Transportation and Industrial financing unit was announced July 26 and the sale of the Business Equipment Financing unit on August 6 both are expected to close in the third quarter.
Nearly all of the corporate and municipal financing portfolios have now been sold or have sales arrangements in place.
Ford purchased USL Capital, then known as U.S. Leasing, in 1987 for $512 million. USL Capital had owned or managed assets of $9.7 billion, 640 employees, 70 U.S. branches and pre-tax earnings of $300 million at year-end 1995.
About 60 percent of USL Capital employees have been offered employment by the acquiring companies.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787Shares in Philip Morris Cos Inc continued to fall preceding Thursday's U.S. market open, deepening a rout that began yesterday on expected tougher federal regulations and new cigarette-related lawsuits.
Philip Morris shares traded at 87 before the regular-session start, off 5/8, traders said.
They reported no moves in other tobacco issues in early pre-open activity, including RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, Brooke Group Ltd and UST Inc.John Fields' strategy is simple: Find stocks that are out of favor and underpriced, with potential for earnings growth.
The portfolio manager of Delaware Group Decatur Total Return Fund starts with a look at the yield. "It's a dividend yield driven investment style," Fields said. "We can't buy or hold a stock that does not have a dividend yield greater than the S&P 500." The yield for the S&P 500 is about 2.21 percent.  
Fields said the strategy, which has been in use since 1957, forces him to focus on stocks that are either out of favor or off most investors' radar screens.
Under the second criteria, the $635 million fund seeks stocks that pack earnings power. "We're looking for earnings surprises," Fields said, "something a little better than the market expects."
The stocks are "ones that anyone would be proud to own over time. They're not broken-down companies," Fields said.
He cited Pitney Bowes Inc, one of the fund's top picks, currently yielding about 2.89 percent.  
"It usually does not have a yield superior to the S&P," he said. "The only thing we can find (to explain it) is the boredom factor. Does mailroom automation turn you on?
"It's a fine company, with above-average returns, and it just kind of drifted off the radar screen," he said, adding that he sees it generating double-digit earnings, revenue and dividend growth.
Among sectors, Fields is currently focused on banking stocks, which he sees as "the growth story in the market," and the pharmaceutical sector, which has above-average yields and healthy earnings growth.  
The fund's top holding is DuPont Co, about 2.8 percent of the portfolio. Other big picks include Philip Morris Cos Inc, McGraw-Hill Cos Inc, Union Pacific Corp, SmithKline Beecham, British Petroleum Co Plc, Mobil Corp, Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, and May Department, Stores Co.
Fields said in recent weeks the fund added Philip Morris, under some pressure in recent weeks due to investor concern over tobacco litigation, May, Pitney and DuPont. The fund recently sold British Petroleum and U.S. Bancorp.  
Fields doesn't place big bets, crafting a portfolio with about 70 stocks, none more than three percent of total assets.
Currently common stocks make up 98 percent of the fund, convertible issues 1 percent, and cash one percent. That breakdown has barely changed in the last six months. The fund is usually fully invested, Fields said.
According to Lipper Analytical Services, the fund's return year to date is 6.91 percent versus 6.78 percent for the average income fund. For 1995, it returned 30.51 percent versus 30.21 average for the group, and over five years, 13.77 percent versus 12.8 percent.
-- jeff.benkoe@reuters.com. 212-859-1700Andover Togs Inc said it had reached an agreement with The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc for a two-year $15 million revolving credit facility.
The company said in a Wednesday statement that the agreement, which is subject to final documentation, is expected to be completed this week and submitted for approval by the Bankruptcy Court.
Upon approval by the court, this new facility will replace the company's existing $11 million credit facility which is due to terminate in December 1996.
The maker of children's wear filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 19.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax & extraordinary items result  2,381 vs 2,537  
 Group pre-tax result			2,353  vs 2,449
 Net interest and fees income	    4,629  vs 4,838
 Securities and forex results		585  vs 905.8
 Losses and bad debt provisions	    341  vs 661
 Capital ratio (percent)		     9.1  vs 10.6
Own capital end-June 96 23.09 billion vs 20.31 bln end-June 95
Balance end-June 96	412 billion  vs   349 bln end-June 95
NOTE - Full name of biggest Danish banking group Den Danske Bank A/S. It forecast in a statement a better whole year 1996 core activities result than last year. The result was above analyst expectations.
--Copenhagen newsroom +45-33-969650Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output		5,500   up 9.3 pct
	 Of which domestic		     3,320   up 2.0 pct
	 Of which foreign			2,190   up 22.4 pct
    Incoming orders			    8,480   up 62.1 pct
	 Of which domestic		     3,363   up 1.9 pct
	 Of which foreign			4,850   up 190.8 pct
    Orders in hand			     14,050  up 32.7 pct
	 Of which domestic		     6,070  down 8.1 pct
	 Of which foreign			7,980   up 100.2 pct
    Staff					  41,943  up 5.8 pct
	 Of which domestic		     21,445  down 1.7 pct
	 Of which foreign			20,498  up 14.8 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German construction group is Hochtief AG. The group noted that its order figures included one single major order for the Athens airport, which added 2.38 billion marks to the total. Without this order, foreign orders would have risen 48 percent and overall orders would have risen 16.6 percent.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525.Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output	     5,500   up 9.3 pct
    Group incoming orders		   8,480   up 62.1 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Hochtief AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Life assurance		    2,210	vs	   1,458
 Non-life insurance		  649	vs	     656
 UNI Storebrand ASA		   97	vs     minus 151
 Storebrand Bank AS	   minus 14	vs	     n/a
Eliminations/
 other companies	     minus 216	vs		13
 Operating result		  2,756	vs	   1,990
Life policy holder's
 portion			     1,896	vs	   1,207
 Group result			  860	vs	     783
NOTE -- Full name of Norway's largest insurance company is UNI Storebrand ASA. Seven analysts polled by Reuters forecast the company would book a first-half group result of 683 million crowns on the average.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     196.2   up 29.6 pct
    Group sales				  10,500  up 16.5 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German drugs wholesale group is Gehe AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Three months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     1,203   vs 1,145
    Group sales excluding taxes	    12,435  vs 11,991
    --domestic sales			   3,162   vs 3,239
    --foreign sales			    9,273   vs 8,752
NOTE - Full name of the German chemicals group is BASF AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30 (in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			1,370   vs 1,196
    Group pre-tax profit		  2,323   vs 2,025
    Group sales excluding taxes	 24,267  vs 24,057
NOTE - Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted on average a 17 percent rise in pre-tax profit with estimates ranging between 2.27 billion and 2.38 billion marks. Sales were forecast to increase by three percent on average excluding gas and mineral oil taxes, with estimates ranging between 23.9 billion and 26.4 billion marks.
    Parent pre-tax profit		 1,156   vs 1,161
    Parent sales excl taxes	     10,389  vs 11,336
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Morkels Ltd said on Thursday it planned to change the company's name to Morkels Retail Group Ltd and reduce the share premium account by up to 30.9 million rand.
The moves follow the acquisition of the operating subsidiaries of Bergers Trading Holdings Ltd.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003The financial group connected to Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. (IPB) said on Thursday that it had taken control over the Czech glass fibre producer Vertex a.s. .
Spokesman for IPB investment arm Prvni Investicni, Tomas Kopriva, told Reuters that the IPB Group had placed its chosen directors on Vertex's board by controlling more than 51 percent of the voting shares present at an extraordinary shareholders meeting in the eastern Czech town of Litomysl.  
"Altogether more than 51 percent voted with us," Kopriva said.
IPB has been battling for the control of Vertex with another large Czech banking group Komercni Banka a.s. .
In June and July analysts said both groups had been amassing shares in Vertex through the secondary market, helping to push the stock's price over 7,000 crowns.
The stock was down 251 crowns from Wednesday's close at 4,783 at the Prague Stock Exchange's daily fixing, prior to the results of the general meeting.
-- Radek Narovec, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003Chemapol Group a.s., a rapidly growing Czech trading and chemicals conglomerate, on Thursday pulled the veil off its quietly amassed empire with plans to expand its shareholding base globally.
Chemapol general director Vaclav Junek told a news conference the holding company planned a minimum 600 million crown Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) issue by the year's end.
The Bank of New York would act as depositor for the issue of the receipts, which will carry voting rights for the shares to be registered in the Czech Republic.
The issue, which should be the last tranche of the company's current equity expansion plan, would be arranged by the investment bank HSBC and Chemapol's own finance unit Expandia Finance, Junek said.
Chemapol has grown from mostly oil trading company -- a business it was partially pushed out of by local refineries -- to control an estimated 20 billion crowns in equity throughout its various holdings.
Company officials said the GDR issue was planned to help raise liquidity in the hard-to-find shares, and broaden the firm's financing base.
Taking advantage of the rapid Czech privatisation programmes and a stealthy equities market, Chemapol has quietly acquired significant stakes in 67 companies. Through those companies it holds stakes in many other firms.
The company said it recently reorganised its structure, forming five sub-holdings split among chemicals and pharmaceuticals, international trade, real estate, media and communications, and chemicals distribution holdings.
"I believe that a company that has more than a half of its turnover realised abroad... should not be afraid of going to foreign markets, but it should also have contacts on the shareholders' level as well," Junek said.
The firm will also seek listing on the Prague Stock Exchange between now and the first half of the next year, finally joining other large Czech firms whose shares have been trading on the market for more than three years.
Chemapol is one of the most tightly-held large Czech groups, with primarily domestic shareholders and a small fraction of shares traded on the Czech OTC exchange RM-System.
Chemapol Group's current basic capital is 1.68 billion crowns after a series of new rights issues. Six Czech banks hold more than 50 percent of the company's stock.
Junek said after the GDR issue the equity capital should remain between 2.2 and 2.5 billion crowns in the medium term.
The company revelaed its latest acquisition on Thursday, saying it had amassed an 80 percent stake in the privatised state arms and machinery trading company Omnipol.
"We have been thinking about creating another 'leg', a machinery trading unit, for a long time," Junek said.
He added that Chemapol would coordinate with Omnipol its international activities in order to increase Omnipol's sales twice over the next two years to five or six billion crowns.
Junek said most of Omnipol's turnover were items other than arms, mainly machinery. He said Chemapol would also use Omnipol's close connections with the military aircraft-maker Aero Vodochody aiming to gain control over the firm.
The director also said that Chemapol's media unit was interested in taking an unspecified stake in the private Czech TV station Premiera. "(A result of the negotiations) will be clear at the beginning of the next year," said Junek.
The group reported consolidated net profit for the first half of this year of 290 million crowns, but is still expecting an international audit. The group posted audited net profit of 62.5 million crowns in 1995.
It had total sales of over 40 billion crowns in 1995 and 29 billion crowns in the first half of 1996.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003Czech trading and chemicals conglomerate Chemapol Group a.s. said on Thursday it was planning a minimum 600 million crown Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) issue by the end of the year.
Chemapol Director Vaclav Junek told a news conference that the Bank of New York would act as depositor for the issue of the receipts, which will carry voting rights for the shares to be registered in the Czech Republic.
The issue, which should be the last tranche of the company's equity expansion plan, would be aranged by the investment bank HSBC and Chemapol's own finance unit Expandia Finance, Junek said.
Details will be discussed at an extraordinary shareholders meeting called for September 20.
"We are, together with HSBC and Expandia Finance ... preparing an international issue which should be realised before the end of the year," Junek said. "The bottom limit, as proposed, is 600 million crowns."
Chemapol Group's current basic capital is 1.68 billion crowns. Six Czech banks hold more than 50 percent of the company's stock.
The company, which has holdings ranging from chemical production to media and arms and machinery trading units, also said it would seek listing on the Prague Stock Exchange between now and the first half of the next year.
It is one of the most tightly held large Czech groups, with primarily domestic shareholders and a small fraction of shares traded on the Czech OTC exchange RM-System.
The company declared on Thursday that it had built up an 80 percent stake in the former state arms trading company Omnipol.
The group reported consolidated sales of over 40 billion crowns in 1995 and 29 billion crowns in the first half of 1996.
Chemapol directly holds stakes in 67 companies, and through those companies it holds stakes in various other firms, Junek said.
-- Jan Lopatka, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003PaineWebber Group Inc said Thursday that it named Bruce Rubin as president and chief executive officer of its PaineWebber Properties Inc subsidiary.
Rubin replaces Lawrence Cohen, who has left the firm, the company said.
Rubin joined PaineWebber last November and served as senior vice president in real estate banking.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1610Resource Bancshares Mortgage Group Inc said on Thursday that its July 1996 mortgage loan production was $775.3 million, a 1 percent decrease from the July 1995 production of $786.6 million.
For the seven months ended July 31, 1996, mortgage loan production was $6.4 billion, a 150% increase over the same period for 1995, the company said.
The company said its locked mortgage loan pipeline was $768.0 million at July 31, 1996, compared to $957.2 million at July 31, 1995.Thyssen Steel Group, a division of Thyssen Inc N.A., said Thursday it has secured an option to purchase 40 acres of land near Richburg, S.C. for construction of a proposed steel processing and distribution center.
Thyssen Steel Group, which currently operates two steel distribution centers in the Southeast United States, said it is building the facility to expand its business in the automotive, appliance and home and farm equipment markets.
Construction is expected to begin in the fall of 1996.
Thyssen Inc provides steel, aluminum, specialty metals and plastics processing and distribution. It is a subsidiary of Thyssen AG, based in Dusseldorf, Germany.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787A group led by TCW Group said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Thursday it holds an 11.1 percent stake in Kellstrom Industries or 342,100 common shares.
The group disclosed its latest position on Kellstrom in a 13G filing.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. Unlike 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.The Inter-American Investment Corporation agreed on Thursday to lend $3 million and mobilize $15 million from commercial banks to help Argentine company PASA SA expand its petrochemical facilities.
The loans will help finance a $38 million project to increase PASA's production capacity of ammonia, urea and ethyl benzene, said the IIC, part of the Inter-American Development Bank Group.
About 20 percent of spending on the project will be invested in upgrading environmental control systems and equipment.Carbide/Graphite Group Inc said Thursday expenses due to downtime at its Seadrift needle coke facility will reduce first quarter net income by about $1 million.
The Seadrift facility, which is closed for maintenance approximately two weeks every two to three years, remained closed for an extra week as maintenance and capital projects took longer to implement.
Carbide/Graphite is a leading manufacturer of industrial graphite and calcium carbide products.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) said on Thursday it would list put and call options on shares of Portland General Corp and PP&L Resources Inc on August 27.
The options on both companies will trade on the February expiration cycle, with initial expiration months of September, October, November and February. Susquehanna Investment Group will be the specialist for both.
Portland General will have initial strikes of 35, 40 and 45 and PP&L will have initial strikes of 20, 22-1/2 and 25. -Derivatives desk, 312-408-8750/E-mail: derivatives@reuters.comPeoples Heritage Financial Group Inc's acquisition of Family Bancorp has been approved by shareholders of both companies, Peoples Heritage said Thursday.
Their agreement calls for Family Bancorp shareholders to receive 1.26 shares of Peoples Heritage common stock for each share of Family common stock.
Family Bancorp shares were up 3/8 at 26-3/8 on Thursday afternoon, while Peoples Heritage was unchanged at 21-3/8.
Peoples Heritage is a $4.4 billion banking and financial services holding company. Family Bancorp is an $892 million holding company for Family Bank FSB.Greenstone Roberts Advertising said on Thursday a wholly owned subsidiary has merged The Gothard Group Inc, a public relations agency.
Terms of the transaction, which involves Greenstone Roberts Advertising/Florida, were not disclosed.
The merged public relations and marketing agency, will be renamed Gothard/Greenstone Roberts.
Ronald Greenstone, chairman of the parent company, will be the chief executive of the newly created agency.The resurrection of global aviation pioneer Pan Am, bankrupt five years ago, has been delayed by the ValuJet and TWA crashes -- but the new domestic carrier is flying test runs for a debut after Labor Day.
The new Pan American World Airways, which had aimed for a July 4th inauguration and then targeted Labor Day, should be ready for its first revenue flight a short time thereafter, Chief Executive Martin Shugrue said in a recent interview.
Shugrue said his management team had expected an expedited approval process because Pan Am's rebirth was based on "financing already in place, a solid business plan, crack management and young, wide-bodied aircraft."
But the May 11 crash of ValuJet Flight 592 in Florida's Everglades, which killed all 110 people on board, and the July 17 crash of TWA Flight 800 in the Atlantic Ocean off Long Island, killing 230, slowed federal approval by the Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration.
"Given new concerns about airline safety and terrorism, our certification process understandably took longer than expected," he said.
Shugrue said the ValuJet crash, in which investigators suspect oxygen canisters shipped on the airliner by a contractor as a possible cause, diverted attention from Pan Am's certification and focused the spotlight on "outsourcing," or the use of outside contractors.
"Like many airlines today, we plan to outsource elements of our operations. But we were prescient in that we did not and do not plan to outsource the key areas of engineering, quality assurance and maintenance record keeping," he said.
Pan Am received provisional Transportation Department certification on Tuesday and Shugrue expects FAA certification in the near future. He said the airline was about 90 percent through FAA certification with only "proving flights" remaining to demonstrate Pan Am's readiness to fly between Miami, New York and Los Angeles.
The Transportation Department approval was granted despite a petition filed by families of the victims of the Pan Am Flight 103 crash over Lockerbie, Scotland opposing Shugrue's involvement with the new Pan Am. The families have not yet decided whether to further oppose the start-up carrier.
Shugrue was vice chairman and chief operating officer of the old Pan Am and served as president of Continental Airlines and trustee for Eastern Airlines after its 1989 bankruptcy.
Once final federal approval is obtained, Pan Am will complete its financing, Shugrue said.
On Aug. 12, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved a registration statement for Pan Am's reverse merger with the Frost-Hanna Mergers Group and a shareholders meeting on the merger is set for Sept. 4.
"At that point, an additional $17 million will be released to Pan Am. Shortly after that, Pan Am will list its stock," he said. Total financing at this point is more than $30 million in cash and nearly $10 million in kind.
"We want to launch as soon after Labor Day as possible in time for the business travel season. Our marketing effort is oriented toward frequent business flyers," Shugrue said.
Shugrue said he expected one-third of Pan Am's traffic to come from deals with international airlines that will feed passengers at three gateway airports. In return, Pan Am will feed domestic passengers to the international flights.
Among airlines already signed are AeroPeru, Aero Costa Rica, AirEuropa, Air Ukraine, Royal Jordanian, Carnival and Gulfstream. Airlines which have committed but have not signed contracts include AeroMexico, Egypt Air, Cayman, Mexicana, Olympic, and Virgin Atlantic.
The new Pan Am has three A300 Airbus aircraft under contract. The planes originally were operated by Eastern Airlines, then Continental.
Most of the 14 captains who have received their new Pan Am wings are seasoned Airbus pilots, six with Pan Am and eight with Eastern. They have an average of 17,000 flying hours each.
Pan Am's failure in 1991 ended an era in air travel. The carrier was launched in 1927 with a flight from Key West, Florida, to Havana, Cuba, and began extensive international air travel in the 1930s with many early routes scouted by the legendary Charles Lindbergh. It started first-class service and in-flight movies.Times Mirror Co said Thursday that advertising revenues for its Newspaper Publishing Group for the five weeks ended August 4 rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier, to $137.5 million from $131.9 million.
For the 31 weeks of the year to date, advertising revenues rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier, to $898.8 million from $890.6 million.
Times Mirror said year-to-date results for 1996 contained six more days than the comparable 1995 results.American Phoenix Group Inc and Kushi Macrobiotics Corp said they filed a joint registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with details of their planned merger.
The companies said they expect the merger to become effective after review by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The companies said they amended the terms of the warrants whereby the exercise price of the warrants was reduced by $2.50, from $6.25 to $3.75 per share.Brooks Fiber Properties Inc said Thursday it would invest more than $60 million to build and operate three fiber optic networks in the White Plains, N.Y., San Mateo, Calif., and Springfield, Mo., areas.
The networks will operate under the name of Brooks Fiber Communications, competing with services offered by NYNEX Corp, Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell and SBC Communications Inc's Southwestern Bell.
With the three new systems, Brooks Fiber will have 29 U.S. networks in operation or under construction.
Brooks Fiber plans to be in 30 markets by the end of 1996 and at least 50 by the end of 1998.
Construction of the networks will begin immediately, with services expected to be offered in the first quarter of 1997.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Nynex Corp said on Thursday it signed a new interconnection agreement with Teleport Communications Group that expands on a similar pact, made in 1994, to connect the companies' telephone networks in New York.
The agreement aims to meet a 14-point checklist of conditions in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as required for Nynex's entry into New York's long-distance market, the company said.  
In a separate statement, Teleport said the deal would enable it to compete for about $1.5 billion in fees that long-distance telephone companies currently pay Nynex for switched access services in New York.
"TCG was the first competitive local exchange carrier to enter into an interconnection agreement with Nynex back in 1994, and now we are the first to introduce competition into the area of switched access rates paid by long distance companies," said Bob Annunziata, Teleport's chairman, president and chief executive.
Teleport said it would be able to act as a tandem or intermediate switch to terminate and originate calls between long-distance carriers and their customers. The company said a tandem switch links multiple central offices to interexchange carriers.
On June 30, 1994, Teleport and Nynex entered into the first U.S. interconnection agreement between competing local exchange carriers. Nynex said it expected the latest pact to serve as a template for negotiations with Teleport in other states in its service area.ITT Sheraton, the hotel chain owned by ITT Corp, has ruled itself out of the auction for the 17 hotels that are part of Forte's Exclusive chain, the Financial Times said.
Granada Group Plc, which acquired the hotels as part of its purchase of Forte last January, is in the process of auctioning off the luxury chain.
ITT Sheraton, which initially expressed an interest in the Exclusive hotels, said it has not made any bids, the newspaper said.
Granada chief executive Charles Allen said: "There is big interest in individual hotels, in groups of hotels and in the whole portfolio," the Financial Times reported.
The Exclusive hotels include the Hyde Park Hotel and Grosvenor House in London, the Ritz in Madrid, and the George V in Paris.
The Financial Times said Grosvenor House had been expected to fetch a bid of about 400 million stg, but it is thought to have received a top bid of about 300 million stg.
About 40 bidders remain and some are interested in acquiring Forte's 68 percent stake in the Savoy group of luxury hotels, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Shares in British pharmaceutical firm Zeneca Group set a record on Thursday amid renewed rumours Swiss giant Roche Holdings AG was nursing a takeover bid but the shares fell back as analysts dismissed the chatter.
"It would have to be a very attractive deal for (Zeneca's) shareholders," Kleinwort Benson analyst Steve Putman said of a possible bid. "I think it's unlikely for now. Whether the company disappears in two years time is a different story."
The worldwide drug industry has undergone dramatic consolidation over the last two years, making any medium size company a potential takeover candidate.
But a hostile bidder would have to pay as much as 20 pounds per share for Zeneca, said Steve Abbott, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Laing.
"I don't think there will be a hostile bid. Zeneca might find a partner to merge with in a few years time and the implied price (of Zeneca's shares) after a friendly merger could be around 1750p," Abbott said.
"You could argue that Zeneca is trading at the top end of fair value," added Putman. "The company should deliver at least 12 percent earnings growth for the next five years ... and that would put it in line with U.S. drug companies."
Putman figures 18 times 1997 earnings is close to fair value for Zeneca's shares. He's forecasting pretax profits of 1.130 billion stg in 1997 and 1.255 billion stg in 1998.
Shares in Zeneca, which reached an all-time intra-day peak of 1538p, gave up their early gains, but still were holding between 50p and 100p of takeover premium, analysts said.
Zeneca, Britain's third biggest drug company, declined to comment on the takeover speculation, but only two weeks ago, Zeneca's chief executive Sir David Barnes reiterated management's intention to remain independent.
"The company has a glowing future in front of it. We are facing very strong prospects for organic growth. There is no strategic imperative to go scurrying for shelter (with another firm)," he told Reuters in an interview earlier this month after reporting a 21 percent increase in first half profits.
"Zeneca would be a big chunk for anyone to bite off. Roche could do it, but it's not Roche's style to launch a hostile bid," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"At this stage in the cycle, anything other than an agreed upon bid or a merger is unlikely. It wouldn't make sense for Roche to make an expensive and presumably dilutive acquisition," he added. "But there's no smoke without fire. I think there's something going on somewhere."
Laing's Abbott added, "That's not to say Zeneca might not find a partner to merge with in two or three years. There are a lot of smaller companies that are never mentioned that could be good partners."Leisure group Servgro International said on Thursday it was considering listing subsidiary Forbes Financial Services Group.
It said that although an in principle decision had been taken on listing Forbes, in which it has a 70 percent stake, no firm decision had yet been taken on the timing or the details.
Forbes operates a number of specialist businesses which include risk management, actuarial, employee benefit and insurance companies.
The company lifted attributable profit by 31 percent to 55 million rand in the 1996 financial year and further growth was anticipated from its divisions.
"Various alternatives to achieve the listing are being considered and when the final decisions have been accepted by the boards of both Servgro and Forbes, a more detailed announcement will be made," it said.
-- Johannesburg newsroom, +27 11 482-1003The British port of Felixstowe on Thursday won a two-year contract to manage a three-berth container terminal at the Kenyan port of Mombasa.
Kenya Ports Authority Executive Chairman Robert Brenneisen and Felixstowe Port Consultants Chief Executive Officer Derrek Harrington signed the contract that is effective on September 1 and under which Felixtowe will be paid $1.1 million per year.  
Under the contract, Felixstowe will train Kenya Ports Authority staff both locally and abroad, help in the setting up of a container tracking system to be acquired from the Port of Mauritius in Port Louis and supervise a major rehabilitation programme of ships to shore cranes.
The new team will be represented in Mombasa by five staff from Felixstowe port and aims at a productivity target after 12 months of 375 crane lifts per day per crane average with a bonus if the target is exceeded. Mombasa port now does between 200 and 250 moves per day, causing a low turnaround for vessels.
Felixstowe will be responsible for maintenance of the equipment at the container terminal, an area that has been largely blamed for the inefficiency that has sometimes included purchasing of wrong spares, low staff morale and corruption.
Felixstowe was one of seven companies that tendered for the contract. Others were the Port of Singapore Authority, Portia Management Services, Port of Boston, Hamburg Port Consultancy GmbH of Germany, Saga Group of France and P&O Australia Ports.Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264The Trocadero entertainment complex in the heart of London's Piccadilly marked its relaunch on Tuesday after a 50 million pound ($77 million) redevelopment that it said was expected to triple revenues over five years.
"An estimated 55 million visitors a year pass by the Trocadero and some 20 million people come through the centre," Nick Leslau, chief executive of Trocadero Plc, told a news conference.
The challenge, he said, was to convert visitors into money-spending consumers.
Leslau said he expected the retail revenues to triple over the next five years, the time span in which he expects the centre to reach maturity.
He said Trocadero would seek to convert rental agreements into revenue-sharing deals as leases expire.
Trocadero and Japan's Sega together invested about $77 million in redesigning the centre -- shifting its focus from shopping to entertainment and giving it a flashy, high-tech look -- and installing a SegaWorld virtual reality centre due to open next month.
An Imax 3D cinema is to open in early 1997.
The complex's current entertainment and shopping tenants -- including cinemas, an amusement arcade and a Planet Hollywood restaurant as well as shops -- generate retail revenues of about 125 million pounds ($192 million) a year, Leslau said. Trocadero derives its revenues from the rental income it receives from these tenants.
It recently entered into a joint venture for a Marvel Mania themed restaurant to be built adjacent to the Trocadero. The Marvel Mania restaurant, based on characters from Marvel comics, is a joint venture with Robert Earl's Planet Hollywood and Ronald Perelman's Marvel Entertainment Group Inc.
Trocadero's current rental deals provide guaranteed income that is sufficient to cover the complex's service debt and overhead for the next 22 years, Leslau said.
Trocadero Plc was spun off from property management group Burford Holdings last November. Burford had acquired the Trocadero complex in September 1994 for 94 million pounds ($145 million). At that time the Trocadero was a shopping mall.
"The key to success at the Trocadero lay in its transformation from a shopping mall into a premier entertainment destination," Leslau added.German utility group Viag AG on Tuesday said its net profit this year ought to at least match 1995's 1.32 billion marks ($886.1 million) despite a 21 percent slide in its earnings in first-half 1996.
The diversified group said its pre-tax profit slumped to 1.178 billion marks in the first six months of 1996, but chairman Georg Obermeier stressed that the comparative 1995 figure was swollen by one-off gains from selling off units.
Speaking to a news conference, Obermeier said operating profit had risen 10 percent in the six-month period, but declined to give absolute figures.
He also noted that the bulk of Viag's first-half profit in 1995 was the result of one-off gains from the sale of its 43.4 percent stake in Germany's biggest paper maker PWA and the final consolidaton of its SKW Trostberg unit.
"Overall the Viag group is developing in line with ... expectations. The economic weakness of the winter period had an effect on the cyclical divisions, however growth tendencies are evident again in several areas," Viag said.
Viag also said its group sales expanded by two percent to 21.803 billion marks from 21.375 billion in the first half of 1996.
The group said sales growth was varied across different divisions, with strong gains in its energy units, in its SKW unit's natural fibres division, drinks packaging at its Schmalbach-Lubeca unit and at Computer 2000.
However turnover in aluminium business at its VAW unit and steel trading at its Kloeckner unit had come under strong pressure, Viag said.
Overall packaging sales dropped to 5.9 billion marks from 6.3 billion marks, while the other core business segments -- energy, chemicals and logistics -- posted sales growth.
Viag said it would continue to expand its core business areas and proceed with a range of restructuring and cost-cutting measures.
Group investment in fixed assets dropped to 792 million marks from 913 million marks in the first half of 1996 while group spending on participations dropped dramatically to 178 million marks from 1.49 billion.
In the first half of 1995, Viag and its units bought several major companies including SBI Systems Bio-Industries, bought by Viag's chemicals division and a majority stake in Computer 2000.
Viag's workforce was little changed at 82,874 compared with 84,939 in the first six months of 1995.
($1=1.4895 Mark)Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in Britain and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in Britain or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.
Fleet will provide U.S. dollar accounts and cash management services to the U.S. subsidiaries and offices of British-based companies. Fleet currently markets U.S. cash management services directly to British companies from its office in London.
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in Britain and is the second largest retail bank in the country with over 2,000 branches.Daily Mail and General Trust Plc expanded its informaiton publishing interests on Tuesday by paying 9.2 million stg for a 40 percent stake in the British Study Group Ltd.
The deal allows the group to become a wholly owned subsidiary by the year 2002 based on a payment which is related to the company's performance. This would value the acquisition at 23 milion stg in total.
DMGT has paid three million cash and the balance through the issue of loan notes.
The group made a 1.3 million 1995 pretax profit.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717China is urging its colour television producers to end a price war, saying it is hurting the domestic industry and helping foreign brands, the Economic Daily said on Tuesday.
The price war -- touched off in March by industry giant Sichuan Changhong Electric Appliances Co ltd -- was an attempt to counter rampant smuggling of foreign TVs and rising domestic stockpiles, Liu Jianfeng, vice minister of the Ministry of Electronics Industry was quoted as saying.
Smuggling has been a major problem, allowing many vendors to avoid duties and making foreign brands very competitive compared to domestic television sets.
The price slashing has cut into earnings of domestic makers. Major companies in the domestic television market include Shenzhen Konka Electronics (Group) Co Ltd and Hong Kong-listed Nanjing Panda Electronics Co Ltd.
The newspaper did not list any specific measures to be taken but it pointed to high-level government concern over the impact on the domestic industry.
Television makers should upgrade their technology and strengthen management instead of slashing prices to promote sales, Liu said.
The price cuts were putting increasing pressure on domestic producers and some small-scale firms had already been forced out of business, it said.
"The price cuts will cause domestic producers to kill each other off, which is harmful to both producers and the state," it quoted Liu as saying.
Foreign firms that had set up joint ventures in China using high technology and cheap labour would benefit and capture a larger market share, it said.
Foreign joint ventures, however, say they too are victims of the smuggling as they are finding it hard to compete with the illegally imported products.
Smuggled and legally imported sets accounted for 40 percent of the 13.6 million colour televisions sold in China in 1995, official figures show. Foreign brands produced in China had a 24 percent market share and domestic brands 36 percent.Samsung Heavy Industries Co, a unit of the Samsung Group, said on Tuesday it would officially spin-off its commercial vehicle division into a wholly-owned subsidiary on Thursday.
The new company, tentatively named "Samsung Commercial Vehicle Ltd," will have a paid-in capital of 100 billion won, a Samsung Heavy spokesman said.
The subsidiary plans to invest 1.2 trillion won until 1999 in capacity expansion, a statement from Samsung Heavy said. The company expects annual production to reach 50,000 light trucks by September 1998 and steadily increase to 200,000 units.
It also plans to become one of the world's top 10 commercial vehicle makers by 2003.
--Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Whitbread Plc is one tasty investment among a handful of overseas concerns that have drawn the attention of the manager of Artisan Partners international Mutual Fund, Barron's reported.
In its Monday edition, the financial weekly interviewed Mark Yockey, who identified favorite overseas investment candidates, including U.K.-based Corporate Services Group Plc , Sonae Investimentos-SGPS SA in Portugal, and Mexico's Empresas ICA Sociedad Controladora .
Yockey also picked Finland's Aamulehti Yhtyma Oy , Schibsted A/S , based in Norway, and China's Guangzhou Investment Co Ltd .Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.Ireland's largest food company, Kerry Group Plc, said on Tuesday that pre-tax profits rose by 21 percent to 20.0 million punts ($32.08 million) in the first half of 1996, reflecting a strong performance in all divisions.
The group's main ingredients division, bolstered by the $402 million acquisition of U.S. food ingredients group DCA in November 1994, reported a seven percent increase in operating profits to 29.4 million punts.
On the consumer foods side, Kerry Foods reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million punts while operating margins rose to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said in a statement.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.
Kerry said current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.
Chairman Michael Hanrahan said the company would now focus on maximising the potential of its fruit ingredients business on a Europe-wide basis following the acquisition of Ciprial, a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy, in February.
Kerry's debt-equity ratio, which soared to 120 percent following the purchase of DCA, stood at 108 percent by June 30, 1996.
But the 54 million punt acquisition of Ciprial has led the group to revise its end-year net debt target upward. Kerry, which had planned to cut its debt-equity ratio to 70 percent before buying Ciprial, is now aiming for gearing of 90 percent at end-1996.
Kerry announced an interim dividend of 1.265 Irish pence per share. The share price was unchanged at 592 by 1255 GMT. ($1=.6234 Punt)Irish food company Kerry Group Plc said on Tuesday that current trading was in line with group targets and it remained confident of a satisfactory outcome for the full year.  
In its half-year results statement, Kerry said it was on target to complete the integration of the DCA food ingredients business in the current financial year.
Kerry acquired the U.S. food ingredients company for $402 million in November 1994.
Earlier this year, Kerry also acquired Ciprial S.A., a specialist fruit ingredients company with operations in France and Italy.
"With the addition of Ciprial, we are now focusing on maximising the potential of the combined Ciprial/Margetts fruit ingredients businesses on a European-wide basis," Kerry said.
Earlier, the group reported a 21 percent increase in pre-tax profits to 20.0 million Irish pounds, ahead of analysts expectations of 19.2 million.
Kerry said that all divisions performed strongly in the first half with turnover increasing by nine percent to 589.4 million Irish pounds.
A divisional breakdown showed that Kerry Ingredients reported an increase in operating profits to 29.4 million Irish pounds from 27.4 million a year earlier.
Sales were up 332.2 million from 299.9 million.
Operating margins slipped slightly to 8.8 percent from 9.1 percent but Kerry said this reflected the inclusion of Ciprial and higher raw material costs.  
Kerry Foods, the group's consumer foods division, reported a 15 percent increase in operating profits to 10.0 million on sales of 226.8 million with operating margins rising to 4.4 percent from 4.1 percent in the first half of 1995.
"While the bovine spongiform encephalopahty (BSE) scare did affect sales in some business areas at the end of the first quarter, strong advances in branded product sales in the second quarter contributed to the satisfactory margin improvement reported," the company said.
The group's agribusiness division reported an operating profit of 0.9 million on turnover of 30.4 million.  
Geographically, Kerry said that turnover in its Irish market was static but the group recorded progress in all its major markets.
Irish sales were little changed at 213.1 million against 213.6 million in the same period last year.
But turnover in European markets excluding Ireland rose by 22 percent to 186 million punts, sales in North America increased by nine percent to 190.3 million.
-- Dublin Newsroom +353 1 676 9779Preliminary results July
(in million zlotys unless stated)
JULY
 Group net profit	     4.46 vs   1.43
 Group pre-tax profit	 5.28 vs   1.82
 Group operating profit     2.86 vs     na
 Group sales		   48.57 vs  24.79
JANUARY-JULY
 Group net profit	    25.28 vs  12.60
 Group pre-tax profit	28.42 vs  14.98
 Group operating profit    12.23 vs     na
 Group sales		  252.66 vs 159.06
Note. Full name of the Polish construction and trading company
is Mostostal Export SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Ten billion crowns and 16 years after the first production licence was awarded in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea, oil companies are again eyeing its Arctic waters as a potential source of crude and gas.
But while Norway has revised terms and conditions for exploration to attract renewed investment there, industry sources say the latest licensing round will be make or break for the region.
"The Barents Sea enigma is still not resolved," said an oil company official. "But we're looking at the last major (licensing) round. If it's a success and someone strikes oil, then we will have a new boom in the area. If not, then I think people will cut their losses and give up."
Since 1980 53 wells have been drilled in the southern area of the Barents, yielding nearly two billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or five percent of discovered resources on the Norwegian continental shelf, according to the state Oil Directorate.
More than 90 percent of the finds have been of natural gas, the largest being the Snoehvit field, which holds around 100 million cubic metres of oil equivalent. None have proved to be of commercial interest.
"It's very remote up there and expensive to develop and operate," said an industry analyst. "Given that and the threat to gas prices from liberalisation, you'd be a brave man to start developing in the Barents. There are a lot of other gas plays closer to hand."
Norway, which pumps about three million barrels per day, is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia thanks to fields in the North and Norwegian Seas.
Twelve companies have nominated for blocks they want to see offered under the licensing round, known as the Barents Project.
The energy ministry will invite bids for Barents acreage in the third quarter. Awards will be announced in April 1997.
Company officials said new, more flexible licence conditions for the Barents had helped attract interest.
"The results to date have been less than encouraging, no major economically-viable discoveries have been made," said Matt Toner, exploration manager for Amoco Norway . "But in any (oil company) portfolio it's important to have some frontier, high-risk area and therefore potential high rewards."
Norway's state oil company Statoil, along with working group partners Saga Petroleum , Norsk Hydro, Amoco, Elf and Mobil , has been studying data collected from previous exploration drilling.
"We have reassessed the results from previous drilling and we have decided to continue working towards applying for a concession," said Yngve Vassmyr, Statoil project manager.
"We have a better understanding of the geology and potential of the Barents, but I would emphasise that the risk is still high. A lot of money has already been spent in the area and we should keep that in mind."
Vassmyr said advances in technolgy would help improve commercial viability of any finds.
In the 1980s the economics of development required discoveries of between 315 and 630 million boe. Today new technology means prospects of around 200 million boe -- about the size of the Balder and Njord oilfields -- can be seriously considered, he said.
Others considering applying for concessions are Amerada Hess , Conoco , Enterprise Oil , Neste, Norsk Agip and Phillips .
Industry sources are quick to note the absence of the big oil players British Petroleum , Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Esso from the round.
"It's a question of different priorities for each company, but I think it's significant they are not taking part," said a source at one of the companies considering applying.
"Maybe they've done their homework. There are better opportunities elsewhere to put your money."Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.British Airways Plc (BA) said on Tuesday that it had no plans for new alliances over the next few years, but would extend its global reach by franchising its popular brand name to smaller airlines.
British Airways has an alliance with Australian carrier Qantas Airways Ltd and formed an alliance with American Airlines in June, although this is subject to regulatory approvals and a legal suit by USAir Group, in which BA holds 24.6 percent.
"One of the great challenges of alliance development is the management challenge and I think it would be unwise to take on any more than we can absorb at any one time," BA chief executive Robert Ayling said at an industry luncheon in Sydney.
Reports that BA would look to an alliance with a Japanese airline, notably Japan Airlines, were quashed by Ayling in a speech to the National Aviation Press Club in Sydney.
"I think the Japanese airline industry is an independent industry and I think it will remain a strongly independent industry. If there are opportunities in the future for developing relationships there with other carriers then obviously we will do that," Ayling said.  
However, Ayling said the airline's four-year experiment with franchising its brand name to smaller airlines was successful and would be an area of future growth, providing safety and customer service standards were met.
"It is a way of bringing extended services to customers and of allowing operators of smaller airlines, who would have found it very difficult to survive in this world of global networks, to be more successful," Ayling said.
In June, BA signed its first franchise agreement outside of the European Union with South Africa's largest independent carrier, Comair. Under the deal Comair's eight-jet fleet will use the British Airways name and livery.
Under the existing rules it would have been impossible to acquire or invest more than 50 percent in an airline in South Africa, said Ayling. "South Africa is a part of the world which would not be open to us if we didn't have this deal," he said.
Ayling is visiting Australia to look at the operations of BA's 25 percent stake in Qantas, the national carrier.
Under the alliances with American Airlines and Qantas, BA and its partners fly to over 500 destinations in about 100 countries. Ayling said BA's global alliance could lead to opportunities in other parts of the world.  
"We may see, although this may be some way off, fleet acquisition opportunities, which would make a significant impact on procurement of aircraft," said Ayling.
"Once these agreements are put in place and they are being effectively managed, we will be able to see some things we are not able to see at the moment," he said.
Two weeks ago, BA reported an 11.1 percent rise in first quarter profits to 150 million sterling (US$231 million) on sales of 2.103 billion sterling. It forecast another record year in the year to March 1997.--Chicago Corp analyst Jackson Spears said he started coverage of First Enterprise Financial Group Inc with a buy rating.
--Shares in the consumer and automobile finance company closed up 3/4 at 10-1/8.
-- Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Security Capital Industrial Trust said on Tuesday it has commenced a rights offering for shareholders to buy 6,787,806 common shares at a price of $17.25 per share.
Security Capital's shareholders of record on August 30, 1996, will receive a dividend of one right for each share held, the company said.
Twelve rights will be required to purchase one Security Capital share for $17.25 in the rights offering, which expires on September 24, 1996, the company said. As of the end of the company's second quarter, the company had approximately 80 million shares outstanding.
Proceeds of the offering will be used to repay borrowings under Security Capital's $350 million unsecured revolving line of bank credit and to invest in additional distribution properties in its target markets.
Security Capital Group Inc, Security Capital's principal shareholder and the owner of the real estate investment trust manager, has agreed to exercise in full its rights and may seek to buy additional shares, the company said.The New York Stock Exchange said on Tuesday Allen Group Inc, Newbridge Networks Corp, Rexene Corp and Jenny Craig Inc are unavailable for news pending.
Corimon SACA also is unavailable for after-hours trading, the NYSE said.CORESTaff Inc said Tuesday it had acquired Pacific Data Group,  which it described as the largest independent information technology company in Oregon for undisclosed terms.
COREStaff said it had signed a defnitive agreement to acquire all of the company's issued and outstanding stock in cash.
The temporary staffing company said it expected to close the acquisition by August 31 without giving any more details.
It said the founders of Pacific Data Group would keep running the business.
COREStaff said the addition of the acquired company to its information technology group COMSYS would boost pro forma 1995 revenues to about $220 million.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Electronic Manufacturing Services Group said Tuesday it intends to acquire Hybrid-Tek Inc, a private company based in Clarksburg, N.J.
As part of the agreement, EMSG will purchase all of Hybrid-Tek's common stock, and will pay Hybrid-Tek's shareholders cash and EMSG stock at the closing.
Hybrid-Tek's existing management has agreed to remain in place for the next year. It will continue to operate out of its current location and under the same name.
The final terms and conditions are subject to approval by EMSG's board.GPU Inc on Tuesday filed a shelf registration for up to seven million common shares with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Net proceeds will be used to repay a portion of the debt incurred by the GPU International Group to acquire its interest in Midlands, GPU said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
GPU may also us the net proceeds to make cash capital contributions ot its subsidiaries, the filing said.
The underwriters were not named in the filing.Novell Inc, saying its future growth and survival is at stake, launched an aggressive push into the Intranet market by introducing IntranetWare, a network platform adapted from Novell's NetWare network operating system to fully open standards for operating corporate Intranets.
The Orem, Utah software company has been the leading vendor of network operating system platform. But its NetWare has a history as a proprietary system, although Novell has made revisions to gradually open it to standards compliant.  
Consequently, Novell has been perceived in the market as out-of-the-loop as the tide of corporate interest in developing Internet-like Intranets has swept through the business world this year.
"Fundamentally our future is at stake here," said Novell executive vice president Steven Markman when asked the importance of IntranetWare's launch to Novell's strategy. "If we are looking for growth, the only way we are going to get it is with open standards, Internet-Intranet based network services tied to network services," he said. "This is survival, it is fundamental."  
With IntranetWare, which will be generally available in October, Novell will be shipping a whole series of Intranet applications and network management tools, including a NetWare Web server, a fast server which integrates Novell's existing Directory Services product, GroupWise 5.0 a messaging and collaboration application, and ManageWise 2.1 an Intranet network management solution.
Executives demonstrating the products at a press conference here said they hope to convince the market that IntranetWare and its associated products combine the reliability, robustness and security features of the old NetWare platform with the open easy-to-access features of an Intranet.  
NetWare has about 55 million users and has been a market leader among corporate networking platforms.
But analysts have said Novell stood to lose that distinction if it did not move into the Intranet direction.
International Data Corp analyst Mark Levitt said Novell would face too much of a risk if it did not answer the market demand for Intranet products.
Indeed, Markman said many customers have asked Novell to make its network products Intranet based.
The question remains, however, whether or not Novell launched its Intranet strategy and products soon enough.  
Some analysts said Novell customers have had to wait a year for direction from Novell about how to migrate from NetWare to an Intranet network and relied on others meanwhile.
"The market is ripe for Intranet solutions and I think they've hit the needs right on. People are going to be more accepting of an Intranet solution from a company with a large installed base like Novell," said Ron Rappaport, research associate at Zona Research.
"The question is are they late."
Markman maintained that Novell is not late, saying that customers are just now figuring out what Intranets are.Madison Sports & Entertainment Group Inc said on Tuesday it has named Kevin Michael Ward co-chairman of the board of directors and has accepted the resignations of Anthony Joffe and William Radcliffe as board members.
The company said it elected Ward, Walter Shaw and Gary Langan Goodenow as new members of the board. Ward will share the duties of chairman with current chairman, chief executive and president Joseph Radcliffe.
Ward is founder of KTL Financial Services Inc and is currently its president. He has also served as president of KTL Sports Management Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Madison.CIGNA International said it named John Billett to the newly-created post of vice president of regional life insurance operations, based in London.
Billett, previously with American International Group Inc, will be responsible for developing and implementing the company's life insurance business strategies in Europe and in selected markets in the Middle East and Africa.
CIGNA International is a division of CIGNA Corp.
--New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.The following are lists of positive and negative earnings surprises compiled by First Call.  Earnings surprises and historical information are provided by First Call.
			 First Call Earnings Surprises
Positive Surprises
------------------	First Call
				   Consensus  Actual
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS   Surprise
S&K Famous Brands  Q2Jul96    0.13     0.17     30.8%
Brown Group Inc    Q2Jul96    0.25     0.31     24.0%
National Picture   Q1Jul96    0.11     0.13     18.2%
Layne Inc	    Q2Jul96    0.25     0.28     12.0%
Shiloh Industries  Q3Jul96    0.28     0.31     10.7%
PHH Corp	     Q1Jul96    0.56     0.61	8.9%
Harnischfeger Corp Q3Jul96    0.74     0.80	8.1%
Toys R Us Inc	Q2Jul96    0.09     0.10	N/A
Negative Surprises
------------------				First Call
				   Consensus Actual
Company Name	 Period    EPS     EPS   Surprise
BioWhittaker Inc    Q3Jul96   0.14    0.13     -7.1%
Designs Inc	   Q2Jul96   0.08    0.04	N/A
			Other Companies Reporting Today
Positive Reports
----------------			     First Call
				   Consensus  Actual
Company Name	 Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
Harcourt General    Q3Jul96    1.45     1.45     0.0%
SCB Computer Techno Q1Jul96    0.18     0.18     0.0%
Negative Reports
----------------				First Call
				    Consensus  Actual
 Company Name	Period     EPS	EPS     Diff.
None Reported.
Legend:
N/A	All or some data necessary for calculation is
	   unavailable.
N/C	Not Calculable, e.g. divisor (Mean estimate) = 0, and
	   there is more than one estimate.
N+	 Actual EPS is larger than Mean estimate. Mean
	   estimate is negative or zero.
N-	 Actual EPS is smaller than Mean estimate. Mean
	   estimate is negative or zero.Pearson Plc, parent company of Madame Tussauds wax museum, is one of four companies bidding to operate a visitor centre at Britain's historic Stonehenge, according to a published report.
The Tussauds division of Pearson, along with Heritage Projects, the Imagination Group and the York Consortium have been short-listed for the contract to design, build, finance and operate a visitor centre at the 5,000 year old monument, the Guardian reported. English Heritage is responsible for Stonehenge.
Heritage Projects manages the Jorvik Viking centre in York. The Imagination Group has been selected as the festival designer for Britian's Millennium Exhibition in Greenwich and the York Consortium is involved in heritage projects in Britain and overseas. The Stonehenge visitor centre would be located outside and park and would probably include a light railway to take visitors to an observation point a half-mile from the historic site, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Yr ended June 30, 1996
			(million rand unless stated)
Shr (cts)
    - headline		     19.9	 vs     17.2
    - attrib			 10.4	 vs     17.2
    Div (cts)	3.25 making 5.75	 vs     5.0
    Attrib income		  8.17	 vs     12.32
    Pre-tax			 11.78	 vs     13.15
    Tax				3.63	 vs     0.83
    Interest paid		  2.05	 vs     1.68
    Turnover		     286.76	 vs     199.93
    Share of associates'	 0.02	 vs     nil
    Goodwill written off	 7.41 loss  vs     nil
Div payable September 6
on register September 23
Full name: Control Instruments Group Ltd
NOTE - The group said it had adopted a conservative policy in its treatment of goodwill and had written off the amounts.
It said although the difficult trading conditions encountered during the last quarter of the year under review were expected to continue, it was confident that it should maintain growth in the current financial year.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Deep staffing cuts and slightly higher banking service revenues led Brazil's Bamerindus to return to the black with a 20.431 million real net profit in 1996's first half, a top bank official said.
The bank, which had reported a 10 million real loss in the first quarter, also ended the January-to-June period with a higher net worth, totalling 1.368 billion reais, up from 1.239 billion reais in the same period last year.  
Mauricio Schulman, president of Bamerindus' board of directors, said the bank reduced its staff by 3,000 employees to 25,142 people in the first half, contributing to drop in administrative expenses to 838 million reais in the period from 948 million reais in December 1995.
"We reduced our costs by 110 million reais in six months, without closing branches, cutting the number of transactions or clients," Schulman told reporters, adding that the bank's annual target is to cut costs by 150 million reais or 12 percent of its net worth.  
Efforts to increase banking service revenues were also part of the bank's strategy to improve its finances. Bamerindus said receipts from banking services rose to 255 million reais in the first half, up from 214 million reais in the same period of 1995.
With the release of positive first half results, Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, expects to rebuild public confidence, undermined by persistent rumors in recent months of the bank's liquidity troubles and speculation that the bank would be sold.  
Schulman said what hurt the bank most were the market rumors. He said the bank lost 1.585 billion reais in total deposits from 1995's first half to this year's same period.
Time deposits fell to 1.785 billion reais in the first half from 4.440 billion reais in the same period a year ago, according to Bamerindus' balance sheet.
"We lost time deposits because of the rumors. We lost essentially institutional clients like pension funds and multinationals," he said.  
Schulman recognized the liquidity troubles, but he said he expects liquidity to improve once Bamerindus gets a central bank loan backed by its own assets or it sells holdings.
"We are showing our situation to the central bank," he said, noting that Bamerindus has been in talks with the central bank.
Schulman said the bank has about 2.0 billion reais in government debt paper that could be sold or used to back the loan.  
Bamerindus has already raised about 500 million reais by selling stakes in steel mills CSN and Usiminas and home appliance maker Refripar.
Schulman denied, however, that Bamerindus was considering transferring control of the bank or selling parts of it as ways of bailing out the institution.
"We do not imagine selling parts of the bank and we have not held any talk with other banks (to transfer control)," he said.
Schulman also said Bamerindus Group's recent reorganization of assets will strenghten the bank.
Under the restructuring plan, completed at the end of June but only announced in July, Bamerindus' profitable insurance firm was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
The restructuring had little impact on the bank's first half results, but he noted "the effects will be stronger in the second half."
-- Sao Paulo newsroom, 55-11-2324411Private Brazilian bank Bamerindus is likely to post a 20 million real net profit in the first six months of the year, O Globo newspaper said.
Bamerindus is due to send its first half results to Brazil's Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) today and to publish the balance sheet Wednesday.
O Globo said Bamerindus' recent reorganization of assets allowed the bank to close the January-to-June period in the black.  
Last month, Bamerindus Group unveiled a restructuring plan under which Bamerindus' profitable insurance company was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
Despite the positive results, the Central Bank will require an injection of at least 1.0 billion reais in the bank to solve Bamerindus' liquidity troubles, O Globo said.
Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, has been in recent months plagued by rumors of liquidity problems and speculation that the bank would be sold.
Veja weekly magazine over the weekend said government officials were considering two alternatives for the bank: the sale to a private bank or a group of banks, or the intervention by the central bank followed by the use of PROER credits to encourage potential buyers.  
Veja also said private banks Bradesco, Banco Itau and Banco Safra would be studying the purchase of the bank.
Bamerindus press officials, however, denied any talks with other financial institutions to transfer the control of the bank.
-- Fatima Cristina, Sao Paulo newroom, 55-11-2324411Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit/loss	    (17.72)   vs  11.17
    Group shares (cents)     ( 4.92)   vs   3.10
    Turnover		     216.41    vs 313.12
    Interest expenses	    4.34    vs   1.06
    Pretax			 (17.92)   vs  11.48
    Tax				0.02    vs   0.31
    Extraordinaries	    (15.00)   vs   nil
    Minorities		     0.22    vs   nil
Note- Media company Aztech Systems Ltd said the extraordinary loss was incurred by a write-off of its investment in Reveal Computers Products Inc.
- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Medical appliance maker Guangdong Weida Group Co Ltd has received approval to list 13.875 million A shares in Shenzhen on August 23, the China Securities Bulletin reported on Tuesday.
The A shares were issued at 7.38 yuan per share in Jieyang city, southern Guangdong province, earlier this month, the bulletin quoted a company spokesman as saying.
Weida will list 1.125 million staff shares, offered at 1.60 yuan per share in 1994, along with the class A stock.
Weida's issue of the A stock has a projected price/earnings ratio of 12.51 times based on forecast net earnings per share of 0.59 yuan for 1996, the company said.
Following its recent A share offer, Weida's total share capital has been expanded to 58.875 million shares, including 30 million state shares, 13.875 million legal person shares and 1.125 million staff shares.
Weida plans to use the proceeds from the A share offer to expand its core business.
Weida said it has forecast after-tax profits of 34.95 million yuan for 1996, compared with 16.88 million yuan in 1995 and 11.32 million yuan in 1994.Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of S$ unless stated)
					    1996	 1995
    Net profit			  2.40  vs   1.79
    Group share (cents)	     1.60  vs   1.20
    Turnover			   26.13  vs  25.17
    Interest on borrowings	  1.05  vs   1.39
    Pretax				4.43  vs   3.40
    Tax				   2.03  vs   1.61
Note - Apollo Enterprises Ltd said it expects to maintain comparable results in the second-half of 1996.
-- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Year to June 30, 1996
		   (in millions of S$ unless stated)
    Net profit			   25.34  vs  28.39
    Final dividend		     15.00  vs  14.00
    Group shr (cts)		    42.5   vs  47.6
    Turnover			    224.51  vs 215.48
    Operating profit		   25.29  vs  27.31
    Other income			  9.20  vs  11.09
    Depreciation (expense)	    2.35  vs   2.01
    Pre-tax profit		     34.49  vs  38.40
    Tax				     9.11  vs   9.95
    Minorities		  (loss)  0.04  vs   0.05 (loss)
    Extraordinaries	   (gain)  0.14  vs   0.19 (loss)
    Dividend pay date:	 October 15, 1996
    Last day books open:     October 1, 1996
Note - Robinson & Co Ltd runs a chain of department stores.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore $ unless stated)
    Net profit		     2.44   vs   1.82
    Group share  (cents)	 5.37   vs   4.01
    Group share fully diluted  4.80   vs   3.76
    Operating revenue	   16.48   vs  15.16
    Interest expense	     7.99   vs   7.78
    Pre-tax profit		 3.46   vs   3.10
    Tax				1.02   vs   1.28
Note - Full name of company is Sing Investments & Finance Ltd.
-- Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)Crude oil production from Australia's offshore 110,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) Cossack field has been cut back to around 90,000 bpd and could fall further for several weeks, industry sources said on Tuesday.
One scenario suggests production could drop to 50,000 bpd through the last three weeks of September, they said.
The field is not expected to be back at full production until October, the sources said.
They said the main problem behind the cut back was technical difficulties handling associated gas, which is normally exported into the regional gas grid.
Sources said the production has been cut back since last week but might have to be cut back sharply in order to deal with the gas problem and other more minor problems.
One source said the field has managed to deal with the problems for some time but it has now got to the point where corrective measures are needed.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
In mid July, Woodside said regular maintenance work would be carried out on the field in early August.
--Singapore Newsroom (+65 870 3081)Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the banking group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output		    5,994   vs 6,231
of which:
	General building			     4,064   vs 4,422
	Transport and quarrying		    549     vs 615
	Energy and environmental technology    554     vs 442
	Services					 777     vs 752
    Group domestic construction output	 3,729   vs 4,229
    Group foreign construction output	  2,215   vs 2,002
    Group orders in hand			   15,569  vs 13,534
	 of which:
	 General building			    9,412   vs 8,705
	 Transport and quarrying		   640     vs 626
	 Energy and environmental technology   2,297   vs 1,484
	 Services					3,220   vs 2,719
    Group incoming orders			  7,759   vs 7,939
    Group domestic incoming orders	     4,790   vs 4,961
    Group foreign incoming orders		2,969   vs 2,978
    Group new business			     7,742   vs 6,973
of which:
	General building			     4,662   vs 5,319
	Transport and quarrying		    547     vs 730
	Energy and environmental technology    1,371   vs 373
	Services					 1,162   vs 551
    Group domestic new business		  4,767   vs 4,671
    Group foreign new business		   2,955   vs 2,303
    Group workforce				  51,479  vs 47,471
    Group domestic workforce		     24,328  vs 25,202
    Group foreign workforce			27,151  vs 22,269
    Parent construction output		   1,845   vs 1,926
    Parent new business			    1,190   vs 2,086
    Parent orders in hand			  4,906   vs 4,761
    Parent workforce				 12,550  vs 10,991
--Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525Indian software firm Infosys Technologies topped the investment portfolio of Birla Advantage mutual fund in value terms as on June 30, 1996, the fund said in its quarterly report released on Tuesday.
The fund had 77,700 Infosys shares valued at 55.55 million rupees. Birla Advantage is the maiden fund launched by Birla Capital AMC Ltd, a joint venture of India's Aditya Birla Group and Capital Group of the U.S. in February 1995.
Unilever subsidiary Hindustan Lever stood second, with 49,100 shares valued at 40.33 million rupees. Asian Paints and Madras Cements came next.
Seventy-nine percent of Birla Advantage Fund portfolio consists of shares that reached their 52 week highs during the last three months," the report said.
The report quoted Credence, a research unit tracking performance of mutual funds, as saying that Birla Advantage Fund was the best performing fund for the year ending June 30, 1996 out of a total of 58 domestic funds tracked by it.
"The range of performance for the 58 funds is incredibly wide - from plus 21.11 percent to minus 46.86 percent. Further, only three funds could outperform the market over this period," the Birla Mutual report said.
It said the Indian stock market continued to look attractive and appeared poised for an upturn.
It said liquidity had improved significantly over the last few months both in terms of availability and cost of funds.
"The increased availability of money also means a decline in interest rates," it said.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
"It's a good set of figures...some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said. ($1=.6466 Pound)The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Imperial Chemical Industries Plc (ICI) said on Tuesday it had terminated joint venture discussions with the Yu Gang Company of Chongquing, China.
ICI's wholly owned Tioxide Group Limited signed a memorandum of understanding with the Chinese company in December 1995 covering the proposed establishment of a venture to produce titantium dioxide in China.
Tioxide and Yu Gang were, however, unable to reach agreement on the joint venture during their negotiations and mutually agreed not to proceed further, ICI said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday it was considering what to do with its excess capital, after it has completed its stock market flotation planned for June 1997.
Group finance director Roger Boyes told reporters at the society's interim results briefing the Halifax had a tier 1 capital ratio of 14.4 percent.
That would give the society a "reasonably substantial" surplus of capital after its flotation, he said.
He said options to be looked at included acquisitions, special or enhanced dividends and a share buy-back.
"It's quite wrong to say that Halifax is not aware of all the options," he said when it was suggested the society would be most likely to seek acquisitions.
Boyes said Halifax would also look at the best balance between its tier 1 and tier 2 capital, which he said was currently weighted 90 percent to 10.
He said this was expensive, hinting at further issurance of the subordinated debt, which makes up tier 2 capital.
Halifax said it issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113A British electricity consumer watchdog called for more competition in the generation market on Tuesday and said that the country's biggest generator, National Power, should be broken up.
The Chairmen's Group of independent consumer watchdog the Electricity Consumers' Committee also told a news conference that it would be "appalled" if competition in the electricity supply market were delayed beyond the April 1, 1998, deadline.
But it added that generation costs represented more than 50 percent of electricity prices and achieving competition in the market was "a primary goal" for driving consumer prices down.  
Ken Prior, acting group chairman, said he was very concerned that the Pool wholesale electricity market was heavily dominated by National Power and its smaller peer PowerGen. Publishing the group's second annual report, Prior said the generators had made cost savings of about 40 percent but consumers had felt none of the benefits.
"We want competition in generation...We believe National Power...should be broken up," Prior said, adding that the group wants to see the pool "properly representative" of market participants.
"It's all a bit cozy, it seems to us," Prior said.  
The group said it had made a number of recommendations to industry regulator Stephen Littlechild to boost competition, including calling for an independent testing inspectorate to test plant availability. The group also wants to remove payments to plant that is not being used.
Prior said there was no incentive currently to bring down prices, because electricity suppliers could pass on higher generation costs to customers.
Despite the generators' sale of a substantial amount of plant to conglomerate Hanson's Eastern Group electricity unit, there was not enough competition, he said.  
"The Pool governance needs changing to ensure that wider interests are represented," the group said, adding that a Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry may be necessary.
Meanwhile, the Chairmen's Group is focussing on 1998 and lobbying to help ensure that 25 million consumers will be able to shop around for electricity.
On Monday, the country's biggest electricity supplier Eastern Group confirmed that the consensus opinion among the 14 suppliers was for a phased-in competition in the supply market, possibly over 18 months.  
But although Eastern said computer systems would be in place to allow customers a free choice of supplier, the consumer watchdog accused some companies of dragging their feet over preparations for 1998.
The Chairmen's Group, which represents each of the 14 regions in England, Wales and Scotland that have privatised electricity suppliers, said it wanted to indentify the laggards.
"We want a flourishing electricity industry and a fair deal for consumers," Prior said, adding that competition would force suppliers to set up more efficient and sophisticated networks that would bring prices down.  
But he added: "In terms of preparation (for 1998), there seems to be a six month gap between the leaders and laggards."
The chairmen's group wants to finger the laggards with a questionnaire it has prepared. It will then meet Littlechild in September to discuss how to ensure competition stays on track.
Prior said he believed it would be new market entrants, such as supermarkets, that would lead the way in a free electricity supply market. "It is the new entrants we think that will drive it," he said.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Standard and Poor's said on Tuesday it had assigned its AA minus claims-paying ability rating across the operating entities of the new Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
"At the same time, Standard & Poor's removes the ratings of Royal Insurance Holdings Plc and Sun Alliance Group Plc and units from CreditWatch where they were placed May 3, 1996 with negative implications," the agency said in a statement.  
S&P said the ratings reflected:
-- the strengthened business position of the group in the difficult UK market, and a better spread of activities;
-- potentially improved and more stable operating performance primarily through lower expense levels but also through more diverse sources of earnings, provided the under-performance of the U.S. operation is addressed. The full benefits of the merger will become apparent in 1998 and beyond;
-- very good capitalisation - the merger has achieved a strongly capitalized group without the need for additional leverage.  
"Offsetting this to a degree is the initial disruption to activities that can be expected over the next two years as the new operating structure is implemented," S&P said.
"Management will need to keep close control of the integration process whilst continuing to focus on the longer term strategic direction of the new company."
-- International Bonds Unit +44 171 542 8682P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.Pacific Bell, a unit of Pacific Telesis Group, said it had been unable to negotiate an agreement with AT&T Corp to interconnect the companies' networks.
In a statement late on Monday, Pacific Bell said AT&T was expected to file a request early this week with the California Public Utilities Commission for arbitration proceedings in order to reach an agreement.
"We've been trying very hard over the past months to reach agreement on the terms and conditions for interconnecting our networks," said Liz Fetter, president of Pacific Bell's Industry Markets Group. "While we've made progress on many of the issues, several significant ones remain unresolved."
Pacific Bell is negotiating under guidelines issued by the utilities panel for opening up its statewide network to competitors certified to provide local phone service in California.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610The Asia Pacific Resources Internatitonal Holdings Ltd, also known as the APRIL Group, said on Monday its second-quarter results were hurt by lower world prices for pulp and rayon fiber.
The Singapore-based company posted a net loss of $0.14 per share compared to a net profit of $0.11 per share the same period last year. Net sales for the quarter dropped 26 percent to $95.7 million.
The company said the average realized price of blended pulp dropped 59 percent and rayon fell 26 percent compared to last year.
But the company's finance director, Berry Kwock, said he is encouraged by the recovery in pulp prices over the last two months and the improvements in its Riaupulp unit's performance.
"We are also very pleased with the ease with which Indorayon can switch between dissolving pulp and paper pulp production as this allows us to maximize sales and earnings by taking into account market pricing trends," he said.
Higher interest charges in the second quarter also affected the company's profits. The higher charges came from long-term debt obligations incurred during the year.
APRIL Group said it expects the interest costs to be reduced in the second half of the year because of the ongoing conversion to U.S. dollar-denominated obligations.
The APRIL Group, a pan-Asian pulp and rayon fiber producer, said its projects in China are expected to start up in the latter half of 1998.-- Merrill Lynch said it cut its rating on Vesta Insurance Group Inc to near-term neutral from accumulate and kept its long-term rating at buy.
-- Further details were not immediately available.Westinghouse Electric Corp and CBS Entertainment said Tuesday they had created a new entertainment and information channel called "Eye On People".  
Westinghouse and CBS said the new channel, to be launched March 31 will focus on contemporary and historical people who are in and out of headline news.
They said the channel will call on the programming and production resources of CBS News, CBS Sports, CBS Entertainment, EYEMARK Entertainment, the CBS Owned Television stations and CBS Television Network affiliated stations, as well as the CBS and Group W archives.
Westinghouse and CBS said they had also formed a program alliance with cable programmer Discovery Communications Inc for production of program series.
They said Group W Satellite Communications would offer the channel exclusively to multichannel distributors.
They said they will transmit the channel via a digitally compressed channel on Galaxy 7, transponder 9 with Group W Network Services handling production and satellite distribution services.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Chadmoore Wireless Group Inc.
				    Financial Highlights
				  For the Three Months Ended
					     June 30,
				     1996			1995
 Revenues		   $ 643,538		     $   --
 Net (loss)	     (1,421,152)		 ( 727,247)
 Net (loss) per share     ( 0.14)		    ( 0.15)
Weighted average
number of common
   shares outstanding  10,294,494		  5,014,553
				   For the Six Months Ended
					     June 30,
				     1996			1995
 Revenues		   $ 843,961		     $   --
 Net (loss)	     (2,088,570)	     ( 1,238,150)
 Net (loss) per share     ( 0.22)		    ( 0.26)
Weighted average
number of common
   shares outstanding   9,700,120		  4,750,715
				  Balance Sheet Data
				   Jun 30, 1996	  Dec 31, 1995
				 (unaudited)
 Current Assets		$  3,225,595	   $ 1,368,649
 Total Assets		    43,491,752	     5,341,495
 Long Term Debt		   5,309,741	     1,090,188
Total Shareholders'
   Equity			  36,544,205	     3,037,626Fleet Financial Group and National Westminster Bank PLC said Tuesday they have signed an agreement that will allow both companies to provide banking services to corporate customers in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Under the agreement, NatWest will set up a representative office in Boston to provide Sterling and foreign currency account and cash management services to American companies that either have a physical presence in the UK or trade there.
Desks also will be created in Boston, New York and London, where each bank's customers can receive quick help in opening accounts and cash management. The offices will be staffed by employees who will bring specific expertise in their country's banking system to each marketplace, the companies said.  
Fleet will provide US Dollar accounts and cash management services to the US subsidiaries and offices of UK-headquartered companies.  Fleet currently markets US cash management services directly to UK companies from its office in London.
"This agreement is a milestone in making global banking services more readily available, for our customers," said Fleet Financial Group President and Chief Executive Terrence Murray. "It goes beyond existing banking alliances between American and European banks by giving Fleet and NatWest customers access to a full range of international banking services including extensive branch networks in the US, UK and Ireland."
NatWest Chief Executive Bernard Horn said believes the banks' "combined strengths in market knowledge, product technology and customer service will ensure that our customers are provided with an unrivaled product. We can now offer our customers a wider and more sophisticated range of services in the US than previously was available."
NatWest supplies commercial banking services to about one-third of the companies in the UK and is the second largest retail bank in the UK with over 2,000 branches.PaineWebber Group Inc said on Tuesday that Donald Cacciapaglia has joined the firm as managing director and chief operating officer of the investment banking division.
Cacciapaglia, who will serve on the division's management committee, will be responsible for the client coverage process, recruiting, professional development and training, private client liaison, research liaison, strategic planning and investment grade debt new business.
Cacciapaglia joins PaineWebber from CS First Boston, a unit of CS Holding. At CS First Boston, he was chief operating officer of the short and intermediate fixed income trading group.
Before that, he was with Merrill Lynch & Co Inc for 18 years (corrects the number of years from 10).
At PaineWebber, Cacciapaglia will report to Brian Barefoot, director of investment banking.Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration for up to $1 billion in debt securities.
When combined with previous registrations, the Banking Group will have up to $1.3 billion in debt securities.
Net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and, in the case of subordinated debt securities, to strengthen the capital base, the filing said.A new study by Dataquest, a unit of Gartner Group Inc, shows that the worldwide market for consumer electronics semiconductors reached $24.6 billion in 1995.
Prior-year figures were not immediately available.
Dataquest said Toshiba Corp led the market, with nearly $3.3 billion in sale, and a 13.4 percent market share.
Toshiba was followed by NEC Corp, with $2.7 billion in sales and an 11.0 percent market share, and by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd with $1.9 billion in sales and a 7.7 percent market shares.
--New York Newsdesk, 212/859-1610Marvel Entertainment Group Inc said Tuesday it had named David Schreff as president and chief operating officer.
A spokesman for Marvel said Schreff, who is to begin work with the group in September, is the first to fill the positions.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group pre-tax profit			1,178   vs 1,492
    Group sales				   21,803  vs 21,375
Of which
     Energy					 4,885   vs 4,678
     Chemicals				    2,091   vs 1,877
     Packaging				    5,879   vs 6,277
     Logistics				    8,891   vs 8,823
     Other					  246     vs 191
    Group fixed asset investment	    792     vs 913
    Group investment in participations    178     vs 1,485
    Group workforce			     82,874 vs 84,939
NOTE - Full name of German chemicals and energy group is VIAG AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output	    5,900    vs 6,208
	of which: percentage abroad	37.3 pct vs 32.1 pct
    Group orders in hand		   15,600   vs 13,857
    Group incoming orders		  7,800    vs 7,934
    Group workforce			  51,479   vs 47,471
    Group fixed asset investments	179	vs 219
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Philipp Holzmann AG. Holzmann said it orders in hand totalled 13.5 billion marks at end-1995.Six months to June 30, 1996
			   (million punts unless stated)
 Shr (pence)		15.36		  vs 13.30
 Dividend (pence)	 2.396		  vs n/a
 Pretax profit	    8.93		   vs 7.92
 Turnover		   133.06		 vs 119.58
 Tax			  2.52 charge	  vs 2.37 charge
 Net taxed		  6.41		   vs 5.55
 Pay date		   Oct 9
 Div registration date  Sept 4
 Ex-div date		Aug 27
NOTE - Print and packaging firm Clondalkin Group Plc said on Tuesday that it was well placed to maintain progress in all its activities.
Clondalkin said the first-half profit increase reflected organic growth of seven percent due to volume and margin improvements.  
The group said its Irish operations continued to improve with profit growth evenly spread between printing and packaging.
In Britain, profits more than doubled because of the inclusion of the Boxes Group, acquired in September 1995, and because of strong organic growth in the print operations.
Strong profit improvement in the Netherlands counteracted a profit decline in Switzerland where market conditions remain difficult, Clondalkin said. In the U.S., the packaging operations reported the strongest increase.
Clondalkin said it is well balanced in terms of profit mix by currency and exchange rate movements did not materially affect reported earnings per share.
-- Dublin Newsroom +353 1 676 9779Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group pre-tax result		  217 vs 190
NOTE - Full name of Danish airline holding company is SAS Danmark A/S. The company, half-owned by the Danish state, represents Denmark's two-sevenths stake in Scandinavian Airlines System.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33-969650Baloise Insurance Group said it had raised its majority stake in Italian insurer Norditalia Assicurazioni S.p.A. from 77 percent to 95 percent.
A Baloise statement said the public offering launched six weeks ago for a complete takeover of Norditalia had consolidated its position at the Italian unit and given it more leeway for strategic action.
-- Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30.
		    (millions of Swedish crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax result	 1,047	vs    1,036
Group operating revenue   17.442	vs   17,740
Operating expenses	  15,569	vs   15,301
Operating result
before depreciation	  1,873	vs    2,439
Operating result after
		depreciation   1,006	vs    1,600
Net Financial items	    -97	vs     -185
Exchange rate differences     69	vs     -438
Result after fin. items	978	vs	977
NOTE - Full name of carrier is Scandinavian Airlines System, H  which is owned jointly by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark and private investors.
--Oslo newsroom, +47 22 42 50 41BONN, Aug 20, Reuter - Calendar 1995
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group premium income		4,300    vs   3,800
	 Of which
Herold Leben (life insurance)
    Premium income			3,695    vs   3,329
    Sums insured			 79,650    vs   73,630
    New business			  1,146    vs   1,133
    Returns on capital		  1,378    vs   1,184
Herold Allgemeine (non-life)
    Gross premiums			522.1    vs    505.5
NOTE - Full name of the German insurer is Deutscher Herold, the insurance arm of Deutsche Bank AG. The company said that 1994 figures for life insurance business were calculated by adding numbers for Deutsche Bank's former separate life insurance business and Herold Leben's. Figures for 1995 were based on their merged operations.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group pre-tax result	     646.9  vs 1,035
 Group net result		   584.4  vs 1,032
 Securities and forex results     -81  vs   307
 Losses and bad debt provisions  -105  vs   305
Balance end-June 1996  336.5 billion vs 325.5 bln end-June 1995
NOTE - Full name of Denmark's second biggest mortgage credit firm is Realkredit Danmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a full year 1996 pre-tax profit of around 1.3 billion crowns. --Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *
 Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )
 Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945Soon-to-be-floated Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday it was appointing Hartley Sutcliffe finance director and intended to appoint Charles Mackay non-executive deputy chairman.
Mackay will take up his position when the group is admitted on the London Stock Exchange, Thistle -- currently 70 percent owned by New Zealand's Brierley Investments Ltd -- noted in its results statement.  
Sutcliffe joined the Thistle Group as treasurer in 1991.
Earlier, the group reported a first half profit -- before tax and an 87.8 million stg write-down charge -- of 24.1 million stg, 88.3 percent higher than last time.
Thistle said an external valuation of the company's properties had been carried out, valuing the portfolio at 1.69 billion stg. The valuation identified a deficit of 204.6 million stg compared with the values shown in the company's books.
The exceptional item reflected a reduction in value of certain properties below cost, and the balance of 116.8 million stg was deducted from a revaluation reserve, the group said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Command Petroleum Ltd said a water injection well drilled in the Ravva contract area offshore India has indicated additional reserves of oil in the Ravva field.
It said the RD-3 well, the first of five down-flank water injection wells to be drilled in the next two years, intersected a greater than predicted oil column of a gross 210 feet.
There was 172 feet of net oil pay with an average porosity of 24 percent, it said.
The oil-water contact was 43 feet below the previously interpreted field contact and the top of the main reservoir was 89 feet higher than the pre-drill prognosis, it said.  
"Repeat Formation Testing (RFT) indicates that the two main (M30 and M20) reservoirs in the well are in communication with each other and with the equivalent reservoir units in the three producing wells drilled along the crest of the structure," Command said.
This suggested that oil will be efficiently recovered from the reservoir, it said.
A previously undrilled three metre net oil sand with an average porosity of 25 percent was also encountered by the well about 548 feet above the main reservoir.
This sand was not included in the net/gross figures.  
During the field's life, the oil encountered in the main reservoir in RD-3 will be accessed by, and produced through, the crestal wells, Command said.
RD-3 will, therefore, be completed as a dual oil producer-water injector and will be used as an oil producer in the short term, prior to the need for pressure maintenance.
The next well to be drilled is the RE-1 oil development well, it said.
Command said preparations were underway on Tuesday to complete RD-3 after it reached total depth of 7461 feet.  
RD-3 was drilled at inclinations up to 45 degrees although all depths and thicknesses quoted in its report have been corrected to true vertical depths, Command said.
The bottom hole location of RD-3 is about 1100 metres southwest of the RD platform, it added.
Participating interests in Ravva are India's state-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp Ltd 40 percent, Command Petroleum (India) Pty Ltd (operator) 22.5 percent, Videocon Group unit Videocon Petroleum Ltd 25 percent and Marubeni Corp unit Ravva Oil (Singapore) Pte Ltd 12.5 percent.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Shares in the Australian Stock Exchange's banking and insurance sectors continued their climb on Tuesday as investors bought in ahead of a federal budget widely tipped to be a boon for interest rate sensitive stocks.
By midesssion, National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB), Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) and Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) had all topped six month highs.
NAB shares reached A$12.70, ANZ shares climbed to A$6.70 while CBA shares reached A$11.11 before profit takers emerged.Melbourne broker J.B. Were and Son has issued a long term buy recommendation for News Corp Ltd preferred stock, saying its current discount to ordinary stock was excessive and should narrow in the long term.
The report, prepared by Were analyst Craig Connelly, argues that the discount should narrow as the market becomes more comfortable with the issue of limited voting securities.
"We expect investors to decide to place their faith in a management team, and then look for which security will offer the best value entry into the stock. The limited voting securities offer a premium yield with a higher dividend," the report said.  
At 12.15 p.m. (0215 GMT), News Corp preferred shares were at A$5.35, a discount of A$1.14 or 17.6 percent to the ordinary stock which was trading at A$6.49. The preferred stock pays a minimum 20 percent premium relative to the ordinary dividend.
News Corp has about 977 million preferred shares on issue compared to 1.967 billion ordinary shares.
The company has recently proposed to issue 164 million preferred shares to convert the special dividend shares of its News International subsidiary and to issue about 468 million preferred shares to fund its acquisition of New World Communications Group Inc.  
The Were report said the discount of the preferred stock to ordinary stock had widened considerably since these proposed transactions were announced due to a view that a diminishing proportion of shareholders had control of a growing assset base.
"We believe that this argument ignores the current ownership structure of News Corp - essentially, an investment in News Corp is an investment in Mr Murdoch, his management team, the company he has built and continues to build," the report said.  
In the short term, Were said it expected the discount would remain wide until the market factored out stock 'overhang' from New World Communications shareholders, and focused on long term value being created by acqusitions and business development.
The report also said the issue of additional preferred shares would increase the liquidity of this class of security.
"Liquidity appears to be the issue of prime concern in the U.S. where non-voting securities which are more liquid than the ordinary shares begin to trade at a premium," the report said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800The Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Group has opened its ninth hotel in China, in Changchun, the capital of northeastern Jilin province, the Xinhua news agency said on Tuesday.
The new five-star hotel cost $81 million and has 450 rooms, Xinhua said.
The group would open three more hotels in China in 1997 and would have 25,000 hotel rooms and $971 million in investment by 2000, Xinhua quoted company officials as saying.
Meanwhile, booming southern Guangdong province has a glut of hotel space, with barely enough travellers to fill just 210 of its more than 830 hotels, the China Daily said.Six months to June 30, 1996
	   (in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit			    14.69  vs  12.84
    Group shr (cents)		    8.87  vs  10.39
    Turnover			     511.04  vs 402.77
    Operating profit		    16.97  vs  15.56
    Interest (expense)		   2.24  vs   0.66
    Depreciation			   1.50  vs   1.18
    Amortization			   1.30  vs   1.28
    Profits from associates	    7.26  vs   3.16
    Pre-tax profit			16.97  vs  15.56
    Tax					3.89  vs   2.69
    Minorities		    (loss) 0.61  vs   0.07 (loss)
    Extraordinaries	     (gain) 0.18  vs   0.44 (gain)
Note - Acer Computer International Ltd is a unit of Taiwanese computer giant Acer Inc.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)China on Tuesday suspended trading of Shandong Bohai Group Co on suspicion of violating accounting rules, the first such case since the Shanghai stock market reopened in 1990, Shanghai Securities News said.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a preliminary investigation of the firm's 1996 interim report, found entries that contravened China's accounting regulations, the paper quoted a CSRC spokesman as saying.
Chinese stock analysts said Shandong Baohai, a domestic A share company, was the first Shanghai-listed firm to be suspended from trading for violation of accounting rules in the five-year history of China's modern stock market.
They said the violations indicated that a handful of Chinese listed firms, which have performed poorly in the past few years, had resorted to irregularities to please investors.
If the trend was not checked, it would damage the image of the nation's stock market, analysts said.
The CSRC spokesman said the amounts involved in Shandong Bohai's case were large.
The commission is investigating further. Trading of the firm's shares will be suspended until the investigation is completed, he said. CSRC officials in Beijing reached by telephone declined to give details.
Shanghai brokers said the problem was linked to the firm's re-evaluation of its fixed assets in its interim report.
The report said a re-evaluation of the company's fixed assets, including a major piece of land, added 185.32 million yuan ($22.33 million) to its capital.
"This apparently violated both Chinese and international accounting regulations," said a veteran accountant with a major Chinese accouting house. "The regulations say that, if a company continues to operate, all its capital should be booked on the basis of historical value."
The report said that, based on re-valued assets, the firm planned to issue a 10-for-10 bonus issue to all shareholders.
Shandong Bohai, which mainly produces and sells material for the energy sector, performed poorly in 1995, with net profit falling by a year-on-year 38.24 percent.
"The company's performance was very poor last year," said a senior stock analyst with a major Chinese brokerage. "It tried to make very generous interim returns to attract investors."  
Analysts said the firm had been punished in the past after it was found to have speculated in trading its own shares.
"If such irregularities are not properly checked, they will greatly damage the image of China's stock market and listed firms," said an analyst with a Chinese business consultancy.
A Shangdong Bohai spokesman declined to comment. "We will cooperate with the CSRC investigation," he said. "After it reaches a conclusion, we will make an announcement."
The last quoted price for the A share of Shandong Bohai was 13.00 yuan at the close of trading last Friday. There was no trading of the stock on Monday.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 57.50		62.00		62.05
 Current	    500    million	   1.00	     974    million
 Net		  400    million	 800    million	 767    million
NOTE - Totoku Electric Co Ltd makes electronic machinery and parts.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		203.00	     203.00	     192.99
 Current	    600    million	   1.00	     419    million
 Net		  320    million	 400    million	 100    million
NOTE - Zenchiku Co Ltd is a leading meat trading company.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 97.00		99.00		95.87
 Current		2.41		 3.81		 3.29
 Net		  970    million	   1.77		 1.66
NOTE - Cleanup Corp is a comprehensive domestic products manufacturer.China's top motorcycle maker on Tuesday announced disappointing first-half results, blaming weak sales, fakes and ferocious competition.
China Jialing Industrial Group reported first-half net profit of 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which increased the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.
Analysts said supply, boosted by fakes and smuggled cycles, was in excess of domestic demand.
Official figures published on Sunday show that China's motorcycle output in the first half was 4.25 million units, up 22 percent on the same 1995 period, with sales of only 3.8 million, up 12 percent.
By the end of June, national stocks had reached 680,000, up 200 percent from a year earlier, and equivalent to one month's production, the figures showed.
In the first half of 1996, Jialing produced 605,623 motorcycles, ranking first in China, the company said.
An analyst with a foreign brokerage said that because of the intense competition Jialing and other major makers had cut prices in both January and April, which had hurt profits.
"Production in China has outstripped demand," he said. "The government wants to consolidate the industry into a few large conglomerates but local governments do not agree, preferring to protecting their own small-scale manufacturers."
"Another factor is widespread smuggling of motorcycles, especially of larger models, in coastal areas and production of fake Jialings," he said. "The market is chaotic and hard for the government to control. Motorcycles are seen as profitable."
While the market potential in rural areas remains large, many major Chinese cities which already suffer from traffic congestion restricting the number of motorcycles, limiting demand.
The company said another factor to hit its earnings this year was the high income tax rate of 33 percent that it had to pay when many of its competitors were paying a lower rate.
"Many of them pay just 15 percent," said a Jialing spokeswoman by telephone from its headquarters in the southwest city of Chongqing. "Our competitors get the lower rate from local governments or from being in special economic zones."
"We have repeatedly asked the central government for a tax reduction but have had no reply so far," she said.
The spokeswoman said it was hard for the government to control the sale and volume of fakes, which include many products and not only motorcycles. "Consumers, companies and the government must work together to solve this problem and it cannot be settled in a short time," she said.
She said sales would pick up in the second half of 1996, with the first part of the year traditionally being a dull season, but declined to give full-year forecasts.
($1=8.3 yuan)Period to June 30, 1996
		    (in million ringgit unless stated)
    Net profit	    1,074.00    vs	  863.53
    Group shr (cents)	94	 vs	   76
    Pre-tax profit	1,801.01    vs	1,475.43
    Minorities   less	46.14    vs less    27.50
    Dividend (percent)     22.0     vs	   20.0
    Customer deposits  59,316.84    vs     52,388.96
    Loans and advances 56,462.78    vs     48,939.50
    Total assets	 94,202.51    vs     81,779.25
    Shareholder funds   5,601.25    vs	4,698.74
Note: Company's full name is Malayan Banking Bhd.Top Chinese motorcycle maker China Jialing Industrial Group reported on Tuesday that first-half net profit was 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement, the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which put up the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.Hyundai Precision and Industries Co Ltd, a unit of South Korea's Hyundai Group, said on Tuesday it won a $18 million order from Japan's Mitsubish Heavy Industries Ltd to make 28 overhead cranes.
Hyundai said in a statement it is scheduled to deliver the cranes to Mitsubish's steel mill in Thailand by August 1997.
-- Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Indonesia's PT Pan Indonesia Bank (Bank Panin) said it posted a net profit of 45.82 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against 30.22 billion rupiah in the same period last year.  
Six months to June 30, 1996
(in billion rupiah unless stated)
    Net interest income		  96.86 vs 78.63
    Other operating income	     38.91 vs 22.26
    Pre-tax profit			 62.07 vs 37.28
    Net profit			     45.82 vs 30.22
    Retained earnings		   174.56 vs 120.96
    Earnings per share (in rupiah)     152 vs 126
Note:The results were unaudited. PT Pan Indonesia Bank, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Panin Group, is a medium-sized bank.Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group operating profit		   61	up 25 pct
    Group pre-tax profit		     61	vs 83
    Group sales				  1,818   vs 1,633
NOTE - Full name of the German haircare products manufacturer is Wella AG. The company said its pre-tax profit of 83 million marks in the first half of 1995 was boosted by 35 million marks due to the release of provisions not required.  
    Domestic sales			     574     vs 533
    Sales abroad				 1,244   vs 1,100
    Fixed asset investments		  49	vs 50
    Employees on June 30		     16,100  vs 16,400
NOTE - Wella said the first six months had been very succesful both in terms of sales and profits. It said its sales growth of 11.3 percent outstripped market growth of less than three percent. It said it had not included non-core business in the first-half accounts becuase of restructuring measures. On a comparable sales basis, sales would have risen by 12.2 percent.
Wella also said it achieved an increase of 7.9 percent in sales to hairdressers despite a stagnating hairdressing market. That exceeded a planned sales rise of five percent. Its sales of haircare products to retailers jumped 21.3 percent, well above expectations.
Sales of scents and cosmetics rose 12.4 percent in the first half due to successful product launches in that business, Wella said.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax & extra items result 1,264 vs 1,158  
 Group pre-tax profit		1,275 vs  1,077
 Net interest and fees income    4,430 vs  4,319
 Securities and forex results    354   vs    347
 Result of financial items	4,939  vs  4,836
 Losses and bad debt provisions   548  vs    584
NOTE - Full name of second largest Danish banking group is Unidanmark A/S. It said in a statement that it expected a lower H2 pre-tax & extraordinary items profit than in H1 1996. The result was above analyst expectations.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom, 45-33-969650Calendar 1995
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group net profit			   51.5    vs 110.4
    Group premium income		     4,300   vs 3,800
Of which
    Life insurance premiums		 3,700    vs 3,300
    Dividend				    20 pct   vs 20 pct
NOTE - Full name of the insurance subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG is Deutscher Herold. The net profit figure refers to the group holding company. The company said the 20 percent dividend represents a payout of 7.2 million marks.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525First six months to June 30, 1996.
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
						     1996	    1995
    Group operating			    26.1    vs    n.a.
    Group pre-tax loss			  3.1    vs    n.a.
    Group net				    50.2    vs    n.a.
    Group cash flow			   142.0    vs    n.a.
NOTE - Full company name is Austria Mikro Systeme International AG. 1995 figures for the group unavailable as AMS' two acquisitions -- SAMES and Thesys -- were realised in the second half of 1995.
    Group sales				1,056.9   vs    n.a.
    Group extraordinary expenses	     0.518 vs    n.a.
    Group tax payments			  18.921 vs    n.a.
    Parent operating			   129.27  vs  110.36
    Parent pre-tax			     128.35  vs  102.15
    Parent net				   102.33  vs  102.15
    Parent cash flow			   186.1   vs   183.6
    Parent sales				 710.4   vs   814.0
    Parent extraordinary expenses	    0.518 vs	0
    Parent tax payments			 25.5   vs	0
    Group incoming orders		    762.4   vs    n.a.
    Group orders in hand		     737.0   vs    n.a.
    Group investment			   240.0   vs    n.a.
    Group depreciation			 190.6   vs    n.a.
    Group workforce			  1,448     vs    n.a.
    Parent incoming orders		   565.3   vs 1,063.3
    Parent orders in hand		    402.4   vs   998.0
    Parent investment			   82.6   vs   138.2
    Parent depreciation			 80.4   vs    80
    Parent workforce			    698    vs   708Six months to June 30, 1996
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
							  1996	   1995
    Group operating				  434   vs     421
    Group pre-tax				    371   vs     386
    Group net (excluding minority interests) 243   vs     216
    Group cash flow				  631   vs     620
NOTE - Full company name is Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG.
    Group sales				    5,295   vs   6,491
    Group depreciation			     384   vs     391
    Group investment				 191   vs     286
    Group workforce				4,811   vs   4,722
    Group balance sheet total		 11,855   vs  12,413
-- Vienna Newsroom, 43-1-531-12 274Six months to June 30, 1996.
(Figures in millions of schillings unless stated)
						     1996	   1995
    Group earnings before interest     1,514.9	1,607.5
and tax (EBIT)
    Group pre-tax			    1,562.6  vs  1,502.0
    Group net				  1,238.6  vs  1,238.7
    Group cash flow (bln ats)		  1.49 vs     n.a.
NOTE - Analysts had forecast an EBIT for the first half of 1.25-1.7 billion schillings.
    Group sales incl oil tax	    47,048.7  vs 45,788.2
    Group sales excl oil tax	    37,346.1  vs 37,416.6
    Group depreciation		     1,712.7  vs  2,065.0
    Group personnel costs		  3,409.9  vs  3,716.0
    Group workforce			  8,663    vs  9,659
    Group balance sheet total (bln ats)  65.01	up 5 pct
    E&P sales excl oil tax (bln ats)	2.77  vs     2.70
    E&P EBIT (bln ats)			  0.11  vs    (0.12)
    Gas sales excl oil tax (bln ats)	5.36  vs     5.53
    Gas EBIT (bln ats)			  0.91  vs     0.90
    Refining sales excl oil tax (bln)    19.87  vs    19.45
    Refining EBIT (bln ats)		   0.10  vs     0.42
    Marketing excl oil tax (bln ats)	9.68  vs     7.81
    Marketing EBIT (bln ats)		  0.02  vs    (0.06)
    Chemicals sales excl oil tax (bln)    2.63  vs     4.27
    Chemicals EBIT (bln ats)		  0.34  vs     0.29
    Plastics sales excl oil tax (bln)     4.38  vs     4.83
    Plastics EBIT (bln ats)		   0.24  vs     0.41
NOTE - Workforce and balance sheet total compared with December 31, 1995.
-- Janet McBride, Vienna Newsroom 43-1-531 12 254Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to slow by more than half, but the industry will still expand at a rate most industries only dream about,according to Compaq Computer Corp.
Sales growth in Europe by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set last year, said Compaq, the world's biggest maker of personal computers.
Compaq Wednesday began selling its Presario line of computers in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.
It hopes the Presarios, which sell for $2,000 to $5,000, will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for PCs.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year, growth was 35 percent," Compaq's Consumer Group vice president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month, the Context research company said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3.58 million.
Compaq was the market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp.'s 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the '90s. About 35 percent of American households now have computers; the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often "crash" and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are easier to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.Shares in British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc hit new year highs on Wednesday as traders cited positive press comment to the pay television operator's 66 percent rise in full-year profits on Tuesday.
The shares were trading at 547 pence, up 12 pence, just below the new high at 548p, which beat the previous peak of 541p.  
The satellite broadcaster said it profits rose to 257.4 million stg and its trumover grew by 30 percent to top 1.0 billion stg for the first time.
Analysts at BZW repeated its buy advice, pointing amongst other things to BSkyB's positive comments on its joint venture with Leo Kirch in Germany.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Hyundai Motor Co Ltd, the flagship of Hyundai Group, said on Wednesday it plans to enter the mini-car market in late 1997.
"We plan to start selling our mini-cars in late 1997 at the earliest," said a spokesman for Hyundai, South Korea's largest car maker.
He said the company would set up new automobile lines in its Ulsan complex capable of producing 120,000 to 150,000 mini-cars annually. The ultra sub-compact cars would have an engine capacity of 800 cc and 1,000 cc, he said.
"We plan to export the 1,000 cc mini-cars to Southeast Asian and European countries, while the 800 cc units would be sold domestically," the spokesman said.
"Domestic demand for mid- to large-sized sedans is seen on the down trend, while that for smaller cars is increasing," he said. "So we have high expectation for the mini-car market."
South Korea's mini-car market is currently dominated by Daewoo Motor's "Tico".
--Seoul Newsroom (822) 727 5643Metromedia International Group Inc said on Wednesday it agreed a joint venture with state-owned Golden Cellular Corp of China to provide fixed wireless telephone systems.
The joint venture is called Mei Ti-Jinfeng and recently received a Chinese license to provide local telephones for homes and businesses supported by wireless technology. The license also covers software and maintenance.
Metromedia uses the Multispan technology developed by DSC Communications Corp which allows customers to be connected without the cost of laying cables.
Only 4.7 percent of Chinese households have a telephone and the government is planning to add 25 million to the network every year for 15 years, Metromedia said.
No financial details were given but a source close to Metromedia said the investment for the project could total tens of millions of dollars. -- Nick Louth, New York Newsroom 212 859 1712Ten powerful high-technology companies are investing in a $100 million venture fund to support startups developing Internet software using Java as a progamming language, The Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday.
International Business Machines Corp, Tele-Communications Inc, Sun Microsystems Inc, Compaq Computer Corp, U S West Communications Group, Netscape Communications Corp and Oracle Corp are among the investors in the Java Fund. It will be administered by venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers.
The widespread endorsement for the Java Fund, which also includes investments from Cisco Systems Inc, Comcast Corp and Japan's Itochu Corp, marks an unprecedented rate of adoption for a single technology across a wide range of high-tech industries, the newspaper said.
"Nothing like this level of adoption and endorsement has ever happened in computing," said John Doerr, a partner at Kleiner Perkins.
Beyond financial investment, companies are also planning on putting their weight behind new technologies in return for getting early access to any breakthroughs.
Java has been hailed as a revolutionary technology because of its ability to create multimedia computer programs that work on all operating systems. Many industry experts believe that may help put an end to Microsoft Corp's dominance of the software industry, which has long relied on the Windows platform that Microsoft controls.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Steelmakers laid off hundreds of thousands of workers in the 1970s and '80s to get lean and mean, but the cuts have industry officials wondering where the next generation of leaders will come from.
What's more, the job cuts and plant closings have left the industry with an image that fails to attract many bright young professionals, industry officials and analysts said.
"I think there is a real shortage of fresh blood in the industry," said Chuck Bradford, a long-time industry analyst at UBS Securities. "It seems to me the industry hasn't been recruiting at all."
Steelmakers did virtually no recruiting during their years of downsizing.
Many top steel executives have worked in the industry for 20 years or more. And though Big Steel's lacklustre image has kept many top business school graduates away, the executives maintain that American steelmakers are efficient, profitable and offer opportunity to young people.
"The U.S. steel industry is very competitive on a global basis... The opportunities are there, but the industry is doing a poor job of projecting itself on campuses," said David Roderick, former chairman of USX Corp., the parent of U.S. Steel Group, the nation's largest steelmaker.
Roderick said the industry will have to do more recruiting in the next decade as the current string of top managers, now in their 50s and 60s, retires. "The industry will find that the string will run out," he said.
Kathryn Shaw, associate professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said the industry's image dissuades many students, even those in Pittsburgh, from considering working for a steel producer. They prefer to seek work considered more glamorous.
"The students I see here want to go work on Wall Street," she said. "It's hard for students to show interest in an industry they don't see as growing.
"Plus the hiring demand just isn't there from the steel companies. They simply don't need young people... they've got enough bodies."
Some experts said not all students were turned off by steel's image, but rather unaware of opportunities offered by the nation's steelmakers.
"We've had no contact with steel companies," said Craig Marks, visiting professor of business and engineering at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Michigan is one of the country's largest steel-producing states.
"Our students are not predisposed toward any particular industry ... they just want a challenging opportunity where they can use their background. I think all the steel companies would need to do is make a pitch."
Some steel executives said that students have shown interest in the industry.
"In the past 10 years, there has not been a year that we haven't hired at U.S. Steel," said Richard Schinagl, U.S. Steel's recruiting manager.
Schinagl said most students who go to work for U.S. Steel have technical or engineering degrees, because steelmaking has become a high-technology business.
He said U.S. Steel also recruits business graduates and has not found it difficult attracting students at the top of their class.
"Seniors today are pretty astute," he said. "We find the industry has a pretty positive image."
Schinagl noted that U.S. Steel President Paul Wilhelm and USX Chairman Tom Usher both have engineering degrees.
"Over the recent past, our leaders have been engineering graduates," he said.Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo
reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with a
year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Pre-tax profit			    3,856 vs   5,332
 Sales					78,059 vs  85,134
 Operating profit			  2,281 vs   4,024
The separate operating units of Volvo report operating
profit excluding non-recurring items for the six months to June
30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				    187  vs   1,580
 Volvo Truck				1,078  vs   2,942
 Volvo Bus				    134  vs     164
 Volvo Construction equipment	   651  vs	 -
 Volvo Penta Group			   57  vs     127
 Volvo Aero Group			    90  vs	91
Other subsidiaries/eliminations
					 CHARGE 131  vs	 9 CREDIT
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	  2,066  vs   4,913
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			2,281  vs   5,561
Sales for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with the
same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				   39,828 vs 42,729
 Volvo Truck				 23,112 vs 25,744
 Volvo Bus				    4,213 vs  3,559
 Volvo Construction Equipment	   6,695 vs	-
 Volvo Penta				  2,002 vs  2,067
 Volvo Aero				   1,962 vs  1,716
Other subsidiaries and eliminations
					 CHARGE 1,546 vs    552 CHARGE
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	   76,266 vs 75,263
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			 78,059 vs 85,134
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017The separate operating units of Swedish vehicle manufacturer AB Volvo report operating profit excluding non-recurring items for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Volvo Car				    187  vs   1,580
 Volvo Truck				1,078  vs   2,942
 Volvo Bus				    134  vs     164
 Volvo Construction equipment	   651  vs	 -
 Volvo Penta Group			   57  vs     127
 Volvo Aero Group			    90  vs	91
Other subsidiaries/eliminations
					 CHARGE 131  vs	 9 CREDIT
 TOTAL AUTOMOTIVE OPERATIONS	  2,066  vs   4,913
 VOLVO GROUP TOTAL			2,281  vs   5,561
NOTE -- AB Volvo is a Swedish vehicle manufacturer.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017CS Holding, Switzerland's second biggest banking group, on Wednesday reported a 26 percent jump in net profit in first-half 1996 but this was lower than earnings growth by its Swiss rivals.
The company, parent to flagship bank Credit Suisse and U.S.-based investment banking group CS First Boston, said group net profit before minority interests grew to 941 million francs ($783 million) from 749 million a year earlier.
It said its reorganisation, including cutting 5,000 jobs, was expected to lead to a sustained improvement in performance in future and was cautiously optimistic for the full 1996 year.
"CS Holding expects the full-year results for 1996 to be better than those for 1995, although provisions for credit risks will remain high and the situation on the financial markets may affect the second-half performance," it said.
At midday, the group's registered shares had slipped by 1.25 francs from the previous 130 franc close in reaction to the figures.
Analysts said the results were below expectations and showed the need for a huge restructuring programme announced by CS last month. But some added that CS Holding could have greater potential than its rivals.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively higher at CS Holding than at the others," analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Banks said.
One stock market dealer said the market was mainly disappointed that CS had made no announcement about selling its stakes in Elektrowatt or private bank Bank Leu. The results were also at the lower end of expectations, he added.
Return on equity rose to 10.5 percent from 9.0 and earnings per share to 4.40 francs from 3.74.
With the half-year reporting season over, analysts agreed that Swiss Bank Corp was the top choice for growth and profits after integrating investment banking arm SG Warburg and launching its own reorganisation in May.
"We have the three big Swiss banks as "hold" recommendations but SBC is the favourite if you have to be in that sector," said John Leonard at Salomon Bros.
CS Holding's net profit growth of 26 percent compared with 36 percent at Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) and 33 percent at the biggest Swiss bank group, Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS).
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," Zurich Cantonal Bank's Bieri said.
CS unveiled plans in July to tighten its mix of bank and financial activities into four core business areas under a new name, Credit Suisse Group, from January 1, 1997.
Some analysts said the quality of CS profits was already increasing, adding that the group had greater potential than rivals UBS and SBC because it was restructuring later.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research said it was positive that commission income, a steadier source of earnings than market trading, now made up 38 percent of all earnings, up from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential (savings and profit growth) because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
($1=1.2022 Swiss Franc)High-tech venture capital powerhouse Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said Wednesday it has created a $100 million fund to invest in start-up firms developing businesses based on the hot new Java technology for the World Wide Web.
Kleiner Perkins -- which since its 1972 founding has created a web of companies similar to Japan's networks of closely affiliated businesses -- named 10 major technology companies, including International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp. ), and Netscape Communications Corp., as investors in the new fund. It said the Java Fund was closed to any new investment.
Kevin Compton, a Kleiner Perkins general partner who will be a fund manager, said the fund aims to improve small firms' access to corporate investors at a time when new product development has been shortened considerably by the frenzy over the Web.
"These companies have to live in Web weeks now, and instead of spending a year, or who knows how long, it takes to get corporate partners, they've got them on day one," he said.
Java developer Sun Microsystems Inc., itself a company launched with support from Kleiner Perkins, is the largest investor in the fund after Kleiner Perkins' institutional investors as a group.
"We could have just let the market take care of this because there's a lot of money in the market right now," Eric Schmidt, chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, said in an interview.
But, he noted, the fund aims to build on the broad enthusiasm over Java, which has been licensed by a wide range of software developers ranging from Redmond, Wash.-based software giant Microsoft Corp. to the Taiwanese government.
"There's a certain benefit that's hard to quantify of having people with a common shared goal, with a clear name and a clear objective," investing together, he said.
Kleiner Perkins said its corporate partners in the fund include leaders in networking, personal computers, Internet software, database software and communications.
In addition to IBM, Compaq and Netscape, the corporate investors in the fund include Cisco Systems Inc., the cable TV companies Comcast Corp. and Tele-Communications Inc. , Japan's Itochu Corp, Oracle Corp., and US West Media Group, Kleiner Perkins said.
Schmidt said the fund, believed to be unique in its concentration on a particular technology, would compare to setting up a venture fund in the late 1970s to collectively finance early growth of the personal computer industry.
The fund is set up to run for 10 years, a relatively long time, and will aim to make an average investment of around $3 million, implying some 25 to 30 investments overall.
The first three Java Fund investments are start-up companies Active Software, Calico Technology and Marimba.
Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the World Wide Web multimedia portion of the Internet. Calico Technology is working on software to enable sales representatives to quote and order products and services.
Palo Alto, Calif.-based Marimba, which was founded in February by four key members of the original Java development team, plans to provide technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
Java was designed at Sun to be a programming language that makes it possible for software using it to run on nearly all the computer systems in the world, making it ideal for the global Internet network of computer networks.
Nearly 50 corporations have agreed to license the Java technology, and Sun Microsystems Chief Executive Scott McNealy estimated that 100 million computers and other devices will be able to use Java by the end of 1997.
Sun has set up a separate division, JavaSoft, to promote Java-based development to expand its reach into new areas, including the huge task of linking older computers to the Internet using Java.
Another area of innovation is expected to be in filtering and ultimately reducing data to make it more usable, along with improving group communications across networks used on the Internet and corporate networks known as intranets.
"What I will absolutely tell you that, over the course of the lifetime of this fund, there will be some set of investments that will be extraordinarily important, none of which any of us can identify right now," Schmidt said.Statement of Earnings
					    Three Months Ended June 30,
							     1996	1995
 Revenue						 $10,721   $9,385
 Pretax Earnings (Loss)				(190)	865
 Net Earnings (Loss)				   (169)	539
 Earnings (Loss) per Share of Common Stock    (0.04)     0.12
Weighted Average Number of Common and
  Common Equivalent Shares Outstanding	   4,323    4,316
(In thousands, except per share data)
NOTE: The full company name is Group 1 Software Inc.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610PaineWebber Inc's Private Client Group said on Wednesday it added Lowe's Cos to its 30-stock focus list.
The focus list consists of stocks rated buy or attractive by the firm's research department, PaineWebber said.
Lowe's, a home improvement retailer, reported 1996 revenues of $7.08 billion and earnings of $1.41 per share. For 1997, PaineWebber estimates earnings at $1.65 per share.With many equities still recovering from July's sell-off, one class of stocks, real estate investment trusts (REITs), has staged a tortoise-like turnaround as investors increasingly opt for slow and steady.
As a group, REITs sharply underperformed the market last year as investors poured cash into volatile technology stocks.
"When you are in a very hot bull market and you see things like technology stocks which are very immature and have very high-growth patterns, REITs are just not as attractive," said Catherine Creswell, real estate analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons.  
With investors playing defense, whether out of fear of a downturn or reluctance to ride out sideways volatility, real estate has emerged as a mutual fund industry bright spot.
According to Mutual Fund Trim Tabs, which tracks mutual fund flows, inflows to Fidelity Investments' $828 million Real Estate Portfolio amounted to $4 million in May, $27 million in June and $33 million in July.
The increases in July were especially noteworthy because "they came at a time when inflows to most funds dipped," said Carl Wittnebert, the publication's managing editor.  
Vanguard Group's recently launched Specialized/REIT Index Fund has also grown substantially, with assets jumping to $143.9 million from $120 million at the end of July and under $80 million at the end of June, Wittnebert said.
This in  a category which, according to data provided by Standard & Poor's, offered an 18.31 percent total return in 1995, less than half the 37.57 percent surge of the S&P 500.
Over the first seven months of 1996, however, REITs have risen 8.06 percent versus 5.23 percent for the S&P 500.  
"We divide REITs into eight categories and all eight of them are outperforming the market right now," said Ed Nicoski, technical analyst at Piper Jaffray. "They really started to come on in mid-June."
Utilities have traditionally served as a haven because of steady income streams and rich payouts. However, that industry is undergoing profound change and several companies have cut dividends as they brace for state-mandated competition.
In contrast, REIT yields have kept to their long-term trend of steady yields.  
"Over time, the average REIT yields have traded in a very narrow band, typically between six and nine percent," said Creswell. "In addition, you tend to get dividend growth of between five and seven percent."
Tax laws call for REITs to derive most of their income from real estate investments, be they debt or equity, and to distribute virtually all net taxable income as dividends. In return, REITs pay no income taxes at the corporate level.American Airlines said on Wednesday it supported USAir Group bid to serve London Heathrow's Airport, saying it was consistent with the "open skies" aviation agreement being discussed by the United States and Britain.  
USAir filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation to serve London's Heathrow Airport from Boston, Charlotte, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
The carrier cited the need for competition in the U.S.-U.K. market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.
USAir, British Airway's existing trans-Atlantic partner, previously filed a lawsuit against the proposed alliance, alleging the deal would monopolize air travel between the U.S. and Britain and undermine USAir's own agreement with BA.  
BA holds a 24.6 percent stake in USAir.
USAir cannot serve Heathrow until the current Anglo-U.S. aviation treaty is liberalized.
American said it remains optimistic that a new "open skies" agreement will be reached, which will make possible new services such as those proposed by USAir.
American Airlines said it expects some Heathrow slots will be available to U.S. carriers under a the new aviation pact, but there may be costs involved.
In 1991, American said it was required to invest more than $440 million to secure limited access to Heathrow.
"While we agree that additional U.S. carriers should be authorized to serve Heathrow, those who seek to fly there must recognize that realization of their aspirations will inevitably be a function of the costs and practicalities with which we and others have had to contend," said Arnold Grossman, American's vice president of international affairs.
The "open skies" aviation talks are set to resume next week in Washington.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610The expectation that President Clinton will approve the regulation of tobacco as a drug by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will heap more weight on tobacco stocks, which are already blighted by lawsuits.
Industry analysts, reacting to the news that broke from Washington late Wednesday, said however that the stock market is more likely to take its cue more from another lawsuit expected to be turned over to an Indiana jury this week.
"I think the stocks probably won't react to this as much as it will to Rogers," said Ronald Morrow at Rodman & Renshaw, referring to Richard Rogers, the plaintiff in the case.  
Dean Witter analyst David Adelman agreed and said an injunction is very likely. "They (tobacco companies) have reasonably good grounds to prevail," he said.
Tobacco shares had been under pressure all day Wednesday after the industry's major companies were named in three more suits filed by state attorneys general seeking recovery of Medicaid funds used to treat smoking-related injuries.
On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Philip Morris Cos Inc, the world's biggest cigarette maker, fell 3-7/8 to close at 87-5/8. RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, settled at 25-3/8, down 1-1/8.  
Loews Corp, owner of Lorillard Tobacco Co, lost 1-1/4 to close at 76-5/8, while UST Inc, parent of U.S. Tobacco Co, lost 7/8 to settle at 30-7/8.
Unfavorable news about tobacco - part and parcel of tobacco investment almost from the beginning - was once automatically assumed to be an opportunity to buy the share cheaper. These days, the tidal wave of lawsuits and government oversight has begun to rattle the investment community.
The most recent broadside came August 9, when a Florida jury awarded $750,000 to Grady Carter and his wife for damages they suffered as smokers.  
Although the sum was a drop in the bucket to a $45 billion-a-year industry, it represented only the second time an award was granted by a jury.
If that verdict is upheld on appeal, it would be the first time a tobacco company has been found liable for its product, something that has eluded attorneys trying to establish class-action suits against the industry.  
"Over the last two years, it has paid investors to buy (tobacco stocks) on the dips. It seems that, going forward, that's going to be harder to do," said Tom Carpenter, a managing director and chief economist at ASB Capital Management Inc in Washington, D.C.
"It's the lawsuits coming at you from all angles. It's the general sense that there's no long-term future for these stocks," Carpenter said, adding, "The declines are deeper and the rebounds are narrower than they were. I just think things are different than they were a year ago."
For traders, the key number is 85. That is the Philip Morris stock price considered by most traders to be the key level of "support" for tobacco stocks on the whole.
That price is the level from which Philip Morris emerged in 1993 on the way to a larger rally, and the price where the stock rested following a heavy sell-off linked to the mass settlement offer by Brooke Group Ltd's Liggett Group Inc last spring.
"There's no telling how investors will value tobacco stocks from here on in. It's certainly not an area where an investor can jump in," said Alan Ackerman, a Fahnestock & Co market strategist.
--C. Thompson  (212) 859-1725Insignia Financial Group Inc said Wednesday it named James Aston chief financial officer and promoted Ronald Uretta to the new post of chief operating officer.  
Aston previously served as a member of Insignia's Office of the Chairman, the real estate services company said.
In addition to Uretta's new repsonsibilities, he will continue to serve as treasurer, the company said.
Uretta will oversee corporate accounting, human resources, corporate facilities management, and information technology.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610Coastal Physician Group Inc said Wednesday it had named President Joseph Piemont to its board of directors.
Coastal also said the board had authorized Piemont and Steven Scott, director and owner of about 30 percent of the company, to recommend an investment banking firm to help it find potential buyers.  
It said the firm would replace Morgan Stanley, which no longer served as lead financial adviser for the company.
Coastal said it was looking to maximize shareholder value by selling assets or the entire company, among other things.
It reported a net loss of $24.9 million or $1.04 per share for the second quarter of 1996, compared with a net loss of $10.5 million or $0.44 per share for the same period last year.
Coastal said Piemont was replacing a member of the board who resigned in easly August.
It also said shareholders would elect two other directors for the nine-member board at their annual meeting September 27.
-- New York Newsdesk 212 859-1610Temple-Inland Forest Products Corp and Canada's Re-Con Building Products Inc said in a joint statement on Wednesday that they formed a venture to build and operate a cement fiberboard plant south of Dallas/Fort Worth.
The plant is expected to cost approximately $60 million to $70 million, a Temple-Inland spokesman said.
Ownership of the venture is split evenly between Temple-Inland and Re-Con Building, the spokesman said. Re-Con Building is a unit of The Clarke Group, Temple-Inland said.
The plant will be able to produce approximately 240 million square feet per year of cement fiberboard siding and related products and will employ about 90 people, Temple-Inland said.Raleigh Capital Associates L.P. said Wednesday it opposed a debt restructuring by Arvida/JMB Partners L.P. involving a proposed $160 million loan from Starwood Capital Group L.P.
Instead, the Jericho, N.Y.,-based firm said it offered to obtain comparable financing at better terms or make the loan itself to the Boca Raton, Fla., real estate developer.
After that, Arvida/JMB unitholders may choose to accept a cash out of $500 a unit, less any amount distributed as a result of the borrowing, the firm said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
"We can obtain financing at more favorable terms" said Michael Ashner, president of Raleigh GP Corp, a general partner of Raleigh Capital, in a telephone interview.
Gary Nickele, legal counsel of Arvida/JMB's based in Chicago, said he had not seen the proposal and had no immediate comment.
Raleigh currently holds a 19.7 percent stake or 79,701 units in Arvida/JMB, which develops real estate in south Florida. It obtained the bulk of the stake in a $461 a unit tender offer that expired August 1. It offered to buy a 45 percent stake or up to 180,000 units and was joined in the bid by affiliates of investors Carl Icahn and Leon Black.  
In the SEC filing, Raleigh said it presented its "strenuous objection" to terms of the Starwood financing in a meeting with Arvida/JMB officials on August 15. Starwood is a diversified real estate investment firm based in Greenwich, Conn., that owns a 18.6 percent stake in Starwood Lodging Trust, according to a Starwood spokesman.
Under the financing, BSS Capital II, L.L.C., an affiliate of Starwood Capital, would provide the loan, proceeds of which will be used to retire Arvida/JMB's existing debt and make a payout to unitholders of approximately $350 a unit.  
"In our view, the proposed loan terms are excessive relative to present market pricing for this type of facility," Raleigh said. It then offered its best efforts to obtain "superior financing proposals" to benefit Arvida/JMB and its unitholders.
It also said that to ensure that Arvida/JMB does not risk being worse off by rejecting the Starwood proposal should Raleigh fail to get better financing, Raleigh itself will provide "substantially identical financing" to the Starwood proposal.
Arvida/JMB, in a response to the alternate financing offer, said on August 19 that although no agreement had been reached on the Starwood financing, it had agreed not to pursue or negotiate any other offers for a specified period of time.
In July, Arvida/JMB said it had agreed to provide confidential information to two other suitors which were weighing possible bids for stakes in the firm.
---Gene Ramos, 202-898-8399Cahners Publishing Co said Wednesday it has purchased Television Asia and other entertainment publishing assets from Partners in Media, an independent publishing company based in Singapore.
Terms were not disclosed.
Television Asia is a monthly magazine for broadcasters throughout Asia. Cahners also received a 1997 option to buy Partners in Media's Asia Image, a publication covering Asia's production and post-production markets.
The unit will become part of Cahners' Publishing Group. Cahners is a division of Reed Elsevier.Spartech Corp said Wednesday its current backlog stands at a record level of more than $34.0 million, up 12 percent from a year ago.
Based on the backlog, Spartech, which makes thermoplastic materials and polymeric compounds, said it remains cautiously optimistic about the fiscal fourth quarter.
Earlier, Spartech reported earnings for the third quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share, up from $0.16 a year ago. For the first nine months of the year, it earned $0.55 a share, up from $0.45 a year ago.  
"Spartech Plastics, our extruded sheet and rollstock unit, continues to produce excellent results," Bradley Buechler, president, said in a statement. "Third quarter 1996 sales generated by this 11-plant group rose approximately 16 percent as compared to 1995, with solid gains also being recorded in operating earnings."
He added that sales within the merchant compounding group declined modestly during the quarter. Spartech Vy-Cal plastics, a calendered PVC film operation, recorded a strong gain in operating earnings as a result of excellent volume and more stability in the price of raw materials, Buechler said.
The company said the acquisition of the Hamelin Group remains on track, with closing expected on or about September 30. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings almost immediately, David Mueller, chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Richard Branson, founder and head of the sprawling Virgin Group, is locked in a standoff with local officials in Majorca over his plans to develop a luxury resort there, the Financial Times said.
Branson is seeking to build a 20 million stg complex on a 600 acre site on the island's mountainous northwest coast, with plans to convert a mansion into a 60-room hotel.
The dispute with the local village council is about plans to build 10 houses on the property. The village mayor, Antoni Mora, has said a new building code would allow no new construction in rural areas, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717British Airways said on Wednesday it was still considering the implications of the announcement today by estranged partner USAir Group that the U.S. domestic carrier has applied to fly its own services to London Heathrow.
BA noted that USAir's application is in anticipation of Britain and the U.S. agreeing an "open skies" trade pact, which would open up London Heathrow to USAir and other U.S. carriers.
"We welcome USAir's support for an open skies agreement ...and will now be considering the implications of the announcement on the wider alliance between BA and USAir," a senior company spokesman said.Liberty Life Association of Africa said it was "delighted" with interim results and believed it was on track to achieve further gains after adopting the new Financial Soundness Valuation accounting practice last year.
Announcing the results, chairman Donald Gordon said that, while it was not accurate to compare results with the previous half because of the change in the accounting practise:
"It does give an indication that we still feel we are on track on the financial soundness basis for our target 20 percent growth per annum - which is basically our target growth."
"I think we are on track and we are very delighted with our first half-year results," Gordon said.
Liberty Life's net taxed surplus attributable to shareholders jumped 57.9 percent to 667 cents per share from 422.5 cents per share previously.
Total new business written by the Liberty Life Group amounted to a record 2.297 million rand, representing a 26 percent increase over the 1.817 million rand recorded for the comparable period in 1995, he said.
He said Liberty Life would continue to maintain its standards by selling quality products.
"As far as Liberty Life is concerned we are maintaining our standards...and really we are not going to follow all the speculative approaches that some of our competitors are doing," he said. -- Charles Phahlane, Johannesburg newsroom, +27 11 482 1003Yr to June 30, 1996
		    (millions of rand unless stated)
    Shr (cts)			  84.1  vs 51.6
Final div (cts)  20.0 making 26.0  vs 16.0
    Attrib income		   101.01 vs 56.82
    Tax				  70.98 vs 46.69
    Interest earned		   8.75 vs  7.83
    Turnover			1,767.21 vs 1,439.24
Div payable: Oct 16
On register: Sept 13
Full name: Stellenbosch Farmers' Winery Group Ltd
NOTE: The company said it expected trading conditions to become more difficult in the year aheda but remained positive that growth would continue, albeit at a slower rate.
-- Cape Town newsroom, +27 21 252-238Mathomo Group Ltd said it was in talks which could have an in impact on its share price and urged shareholders to exercise caution in their dealings.
It gave no further details in a brief announcement.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Albania's national carrier Albanian Airlines will freeze its operations before the end of September because its hub airport will be undergoing renovation, a senior company official said on Wednesday.
"We are freezing the operations because the government will start the reconstruction of Tirana's Rinasi Airport runway," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters.
"Unfortunately there is only one runway at Rinasi and our company suffers most from the construction. We cannot work during the building process," he said.
The company's 150 employees would be on leave without pay during the "freeze", but the official guaranteed they would be able to return to their jobs when the airline resumed operations. He could not say when the work would be completed.
He repeated the company's denial of a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the airline was suspending flights because it was facing bankruptcy.
He said the airline planned to restart service after the renovation was completed, adding the company's board had convened this week to discuss "how to restart operations after the reconstruction".
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between the state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.After three failed attempts, receivers of Venezuela's bankrupt Aeropostal will take the airline company to the auction block for a fourth time on August 30.
"If none of the other creditors have any objections, the auction will be Friday next week," Servio Altuve, one of the airline's receivers, told a meeting of the board of creditors.  
A base price is yet to be set, but sources told Reuters it would be around $24 million, down from the last auction's $32 million base price.
Five groups of investors expressed interest in the airline during the creditors' meeting: England's World Aviation Group, the Venezuelan-U.S. consortium Alas; a consortium of former Aeropostal pilots and Delta Airlines executives; Venezuela's Zuliana de Aviacion; and the Venezuelan consortium Cavendes- Laser.
The airline's first auction attempt failed in July 1994 when the Venezuelan Investment Fund delcared void an an 80 percent public offering valued at $62 million.
The airline was decalred bankrupt and closed in September 1994.
-- Ana Isabel Martinez, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405New Zealand's Iddison Group Vietnam Ltd said on Thursday it had agreed with Vancouver-listed gold explorer Olympus Holdings to form a joint venture in Vietnam.
The companies will develop Iddison's Na Pai gold project in the Binh Gia District, Province of Lang Son.
Olympus will buy a right to earn a 51 percent interest in Iddison's mining subsidiary.  
Iddison said it negotiated a production sharing contract over the Na Pai prospect in November 1993 with the government owned Vietnam National Gem and Gold Corp and has been awaiting implementation of the new Vietnamese Mining Law prior to the undertaking significant exploration activities.
The Mining Law was enacted in March 1996 and takes effect in September 1996. As a result of the new law, interest has been renewed in Vietnam's mining potential, Iddison said.
The company's consultant geologist said there was potential for open pit mining. A reasonably detailed exploration programme was warranted to further evaluate the potential.  
Olympus agreed to spend US$1.6 million to earn a 51 percent interest in the Iddison mining subsidiary which holds the Na Pai interest.
Iddison will also be reimbursed US$100,000 and Olympus must spend a minimum of US150,000 prior to withdrawing.
Iddison has granted Olympus a first right of refusal over future mining projects developed by Iddison in Vietnam.
Iddison will also receive 200,000 post reconstruction vend-in shares in Olympus in terms of the Vancouver Stock Exchange Listing Requirements, 500,000 additional vend-in shares upon a bankable feasibility study being prepared and a further  
500,000 vend-in shares in the event that 500,000 ounces of gold are discovered on the property.
-- Wellington newsroom 64 4 4734 746The Bank of New Zealand said on Thursday it was arranger of a medium term note programme in the New Zealand market on behalf of General Motors Acceptance Corp (NZ) Ltd.
The dealer group consists of ANZ Banking Group (NZ) Ltd, ASB Bank Ltd, Bank of New Zealand, Citibank N.A. and Westpac Banking Corp.
The programme size is unlimited.  
Notes issued under the programme will have the support of the guarantee of the issuer's parent, General Motors Acceptance Corp New York, and have been assigned an A- rating by Standard and Poor's.
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746If China's economy continues its rapid growth, the mainland will replace Taiwan as the biggest market for Taiwan food giant President Enterprises, the head of its first joint venture in China said on Wednesday.
"If the mainland's development is normal...its politics are stable with no chaos, and the economy grows at nine-ten percent a year, our turnover in China will surpass that in Taiwan," said Tseng Wen-liang, general manager of Shanghai President Enterprises Livestock Food Company.
Tseng's venture, which produces feedgrain, was set up on July 1, 1992, with investment of $14 million. Its local Shanghai partner holds 11.5 percent, Japan's Mitsubishi Corp five percent, and President the balance.
Since then, President has become one of Taiwan's biggest investors in China, with $200 million invested in 15 companies producing biscuits, instant noodles, drinks and other food and industrial products, most sold to the Chinese market.
The massive sums Taiwan companies have poured into political rival China has recently begun raising questions in Taipei.
Last Wednesday Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui said the island needed to avoid over-dependency on investment in the mainland.
Two days later the giant Formosa Plastics Group said it was halting a $3-billion power plant project in China "to comply with government policy".
But Tseng said President was in China for the long haul.
"China welcomes our investments, the more the better," he said in an interview, adding that President was moving the head office of its China operations from Taiwan to Shanghai.
China says some 30,000 Taiwanese businessmen have poured more than $20 billion into China since the late 1980s, attracted by its cheap labour, abundant raw materials and access to the world's fastest growing market.
"We are a long-term investor and our investments are large. Some are profitable and some are just starting and not yet profitable," Tseng said. "We are not like those small investors who want a profit in one or two years."
On the wall of his office hangs a picture of China Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin meeting President's president Kao Ching-yuan in Beijing in 1993.
Tseng said his operations had not been affected by the sometimes erratic relations between Taipei and Beijing. "We have confidence and have not slowed the pace of our expansion."
Prior to Taiwan's first direct presidential election in March, China conducted large-scale military exercises in the Taiwan Straits that included missile tests.
The exercises were aimed at deterring Taiwan from seeking independence. Beijing regards Taiwan as a breakaway province. Both sides say they want unification but on different terms.
"If Taiwan-China relations are blocked, that is very bad for China," Tseng said. "The more economic exchanges (there) are, the better."
Tseng's plant aims to produce 90,000 tonnes of feedgrain in 1996, up from 60,000 in 1993 and rising to 120,000 in 2000, mostly for sale to farmers in the Shanghai area.
His main headaches have been how to get rid of excess workers and the erratic price of corn, his principal raw material, which reached a peak of 18,000 yuan ($2,170) a tonne in 1995 but now has fallen to about 15,000.
($1=8.3 yuan)Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit		    2.98  vs  2.30
    Group share (cents)	 5.0   vs  3.8
    Turnover		     59.70  vs 46.39
    Other income incl int     1.28  vs  0.72
    Interest expense	    0.04  vs  0.13
    Depreciation/amort	  2.10  vs  2.05
    Pre-tax profit		4.31  vs  3.49
    Profit from associates    0.19  vs  0.21 (loss)
    Loss from joint venture   0.21  vs   nil
    Tax			     1.32  vs  0.99
    Extraordinaries		nil  vs  0.35 (gain)
Note - ST Electronic & Engineering Ltd is an associate company of Singapore Technologies Industrial Corp.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)Tiger Medicals Ltd, a pharmaceutical company which makes Tiger brand ointments for relieving muscle pains, said on Wednesday it expects a better second half in 1996 and the full year to be satisfactory.
It said its net profit in the first half of the year fell two percent to Singapore $43.93 million.
Group turnover increased by nine percent on account of higher sales of Tigher brand products in Asia and trading margins were maintained, it said.
But it said the group did not derive any significant exchange gain in the period and so earnings declined marginally by two percent.
Singapore Newsroom 65-8703080Six months to June 30, 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
    Net profit		    3.93     vs   4.01
    Group share (cents)	 5.2	vs   5.3
    Turnover		     32.73     vs  30.05
    Interest expense	    0.19     vs   0.15
    Pretax profit		 5.65     vs   5.86
    Tax			     1.41     vs   1.48
    Minorities (loss)	   0.31     vs   0.38
Note - Tiger Medicals Ltd is a pharmaceutical company.
-- Singapore newsroom 65-8703080The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)Six months to June 30, 1996
		   (in millions of S$ unless stated)
    Net profit			    14.15  vs  23.20
    Group shr (cents)		    7.7   vs   12.7
    Group shr fully diluted (cents)  6.8   vs   10.8
    Turnover			     164.11  vs  151.81
    Interest (expense)		   5.51  vs    3.23
    Depreciation (expense)	     4.44  vs    2.70
    Profits from associates	    2.59  vs    3.31
    Pre-tax profit			25.68  vs   30.31
    Tax					7.45  vs    5.50
    Minorities (loss)		    3.80  vs    1.61
    Extraordinary items	 (gain) 7.54  vs    2.06 (loss)
Note - Haw Par Brothers International trades in pharmaceutical products.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703199)-- Hambrecht & Quist said it raised its earnings estimates for Pediatrix Medical Group Inc after the company's announcement that it acquired a seven-physician neonatal practice in West Palm Beach, Florida.
-- The investment firm raised 1996 earnings estimate to $0.89 a share from $0.87 and its 1997 estimate to $1.23 from $1.14.
-- Hambrecht & Quist repeated its buy rating on the stock.
-- Pediatrix shares closed up 1-1/4 at 46-3/4 on Wednesday.USAir Group Inc's pilots backed the carrier's iniatiative to acquire routes to London's Heathrow Airport.
USAir filed today with the U.S. Department of Transportation for routes to Heathrow from Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Boston, and Charlotte.
The carrier cited the need for competition in the United States-United Kingdom market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.  
"USAir's pilots strongly support our company's aggressive stance toward expanding the airline's international reach," said Captain Bob Gaudioso, chairman of the Air Line Pilots Assocaition Master Executive Council at USAir.
"USAir's proposed routes to London Heathrow will increase competition and directly benefit the consumers and communities we serve," Gaudioso said.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610Novell Inc, a unit of Xerox Corp and WhetStone Technologies have agreed to develop and market a product that would enable users of Novell's GroupWise e-mail system to view, edit and store images at their desktops, the companies said Wednesday.
The agreement will allow Novell's 6.5 million GroupWise users to leverage its e-mail, document management and workflow features for scanned and stored images, according to a news release.
The product, GroupWise Imaging, will integrate Novell's GroupWise 5 Universal Mail Box, Xerox Desktop Document Systems' scanning and imaging technology and WhetStone's production-imaging system.
WhetStone is an affiliate of UICI.NEW YORK, August 21 (LPC) - Leading lenders of syndicated loans to US borrowers, as compiled by Loan Pricing Corp:
Full credit for each deal is awarded to any bank with administrative, documentation or syndication agent title on that deal.
Rank  Lender		     Volume   # Deals     Market Share
				    ($bln)				(%)
1 Chase Manhattan		 165.7	235		   22
2 J.P. Morgan			94.5	 90		   13
3 BankAmerica Corp		 70.8	147		   10
4 Citicorp			   61.8	120		    8
5 NationsBank			54.4	162		    7
6 Bankers Trust		    26.8	 57		    4
7 First Chicago NBD		26.4	 82		    4
8 Bank of New York		 23.2	 45		    3
9 Union Bk Swtzrlnd		23.1	 17		    3
10 CS First Boston		 16.1	 32		    2
11 Bk Nova Scotia		  13.9	 28		    2
12 Toronto-Dominion		12.9	 28		    2
13 Bank of Boston		  11.3	 59		    2
14 ABN AMRO Bank		   10.4	 31		    1
15 Deutsche Morgan Grenfell    10.2	 23		    1
16 CIBC Wood Gundy		  9.4	 39		    1
17 NatWest Group		    7.3	 14		    1
18 Dai-Ichi Kangyo		  6.9	 16		    1
19 Bank of Montreal		 5.9	 13		    1
20 Royal Bank Canada		4.9	 15		    1
21 First Union			4.6	 30		    1
22 Barclays Bank Plc		4.2	 15		    1
23 PNC Bank			   4.0	 29		    1
24 Lehman Brothers		  3.8	 19		    1
25 Swiss Bank			 3.1	  8		    1
26 Indstrl Bank Japan	     3.0	 15		    1
27 Credit Lyonnais		  2.9	 13		    1
28 Commerzbank			2.7	  8		    1
29 Wells Fargo			2.7	 10		    1
30 SunTrust Banks		   2.6	 16		    1
--Michele Walsh, LPC Editorial, 212 489-5455By Neil Winton, Science and Technology Correspondent
Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to more than halve in 1996 but the industry will still be expanding at a rate which most sectors only dream about.
According to COMPAQ Computer Corp, the world's biggest producer of personal computers, sales growth in Europe this year by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set in 1995.
COMPAQ is launching its Presario range of products in Europe. It hopes the Presario will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for personal computers.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year growth was 35 percent," COMPAQ's Consumer Group vice-president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month research company CONTEXT said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3,580,040.
COMPAQ was market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp's 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth 1996 quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the nineties. About 35 percent of American households now have computers, while the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often crash and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are more intuitive to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.
COMPAQ hopes that its Presario range will make a dent in this new mass market.
"(Mass market) consumers are not willing to pick up a manual. We want our PCs to look more like hi-fi or TV sets," said Bouten.
He said the new range had direct access buttons which switch the PC across a range of uses.
"These easy access buttons mean that you can change the PC into a telephone with one touch, then to a fax, or a CD player and back to an Internet connection," Bouten said.
He declined to predict COMPAQ's sales projections.
The Presario range of home PCs sell for between $2,000 and $5,000 and are on sale from Wednesday in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.The UK's Energy Intensive Users Group (EIUG) said on Wednesday it was "extremely disappointed" by gas industry regulator Ofgas's final price proposals for British Gas unit TransCo.
"Energy intensive companies need internationally competitive energy prices to maintain their global market position," said EIUG chairman Ian Blakey in a statement.
"They have made an excessive contribution to British Gas' undeserved profitability since privatisation, and this control will continue to allow TransCo to charge over the odds for their monopoly pipeline".
EIUG combines 10 industry trade federations.
Ofgas published its final price proposals on Wednesday morning. According to Ofgas data, large firms -- defined as those using more than 300,260 therms a year -- now face an average annual gas bill of 567,000 stg.
TransCo's share of this, based on a notional transport route from Bacton in Norfolk to the West Midlands, is 25 percent.
In the first year of price controls, this bill will fall to 539,104 stg, a saving of 27,896 stg, if the Ofgas proposals are accepted. And in the year 2001/2002, the average bill for this group will be 511,835 stg, a saving from current levels of 55,165 stg, according to Ofgas.
While EIUG complains that the proposed cuts are too weak, British Gas argues that they are too draconian.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6412The U.K. government has approved plans to develop the North Sea Dauntless oil field, operator Amerada Hess Ltd said.
In a statement, Hess said Dauntless along with the nearby Durward field will begin production at the end of the first quarter 1997.
Hess said a "gross plateau production rate" for both fields of more than 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) is planned shortly after startup.
It said the fields will be Hess' "fastest ever stand alone development" and will use a floating production storage and offloading vessels permanently moored over the fields.
Other partners in the fields are Santa Fe Exploration (UK) Ltd, DSM Energy (UK) Ltd, British-Borneo Group and Seafield Resources Plc.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 6280The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *  Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )  Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945Shares in Zeneca Group climbed on Wednesday as talk of a possible bid for the company resurfaced, traders said.
But many were sceptical about whether the rumours contained any more substance than in the past.
"It's the same old stories and the same old names but the stock is so illiquid that people can move them up without anyone standing in the way," said one trader.
By 0804 GMT, the shares were up 16p at 15.19 stg, after earlier touching a record high of 15.23 stg. Trading volume was a modest 406,000.  
The weekend press reignited the bid speculation with Swiss company Roche mentioned as one possible predator.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 8712Newly-floated Jarvis Hotels Plc said on Wednesday it had bought the hotel trading as Holiday Inn Gatwick East from Scandic Hotels Group for 8.62 million stg cash.
The company also said that room yield had grown 15 percent since March 31, 1996. "Forward commercial bookings for the Autumn reinforce this trend," it noted in the statement.  
The hotel at Gatwick airport has 151 bedrooms, conference facilities and a health and leisure club.
"The acquisition of this hotel demonstrates Jarvis's commitment to offer good value mid-market properties to our corporate and leisure clients and I am confident of its future trading," said chairman and chief executive John Jarvis.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972Analysts' estimates of UK company results expected in week ending August 23 include -
COMPANY----------------PFT/DIV/EPS--CONSENSUS----RANGE-------PVS
WEDNESDAY, Aug 21
- No major companies reporting
THURSDAY, Aug 22
 Rentokil	   ** I    PFT	137.7	135.0-141.0   99.2
 Group Plc		    DIV	  1.48	   n/a	 1.23
FRIDAY, Aug 23
- No major companies reporting
NOTES -
** The Rentokil forecasts are pre exceptional and include
two months of profits from BET.
All profit figures are pretax, exclude exceptional items
unless otherwise stated and are in millions stg. Dividends
are total net and quoted as pence per share.
John Sutherland, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7945Morocco agreed to sell four mines, including a silver and copper mine, to the country's largest private conglomerate ONA Group for the equivalent of $75 million, Privatisation Minister Abderrahman Saaidi said.
"After we reached an agreement in principle...we decided to sell the four mines to the ONA Group at 648.8 million dirhams," Saaidi told Reuters on Wednesday.
Morocco launched an international tender in March to sell four mines -- silver, copper, fluorite, cobalt -- in one lot at a minimum price of 648.8 million dirhams.
It also offered to sell a foundry and a manganese mine in two separate tenders.
An official statement would be issued as soon as the "commission of transfer" put its stamp on the accord, Saaidi added.
The biggest mine is Societe Metallurgique d'Imiter (SMI), in which the state offered its majority 69 percent holding or 668,380 shares. It valued the stake at a minimum 448.9 million dirhams.
SMI, in southeast Morocco, has a capital of 96.7 million dirhams and produced 234 tonnes of silver in 1994 out of the country's total output of 259 tonnes.
Upline Securities stockbrokers said they had expected the ONA Group, which already has 31 percent of SMI and varying stakes in the other mines, to purchase the four mines.
"ONA's strategy in the mining sector culminated in 1992 when the company started operating the Guemassa mine, one of the world's lowest cost producing zinc mines. It merged all its mining participations in a holding company called Compagnie Miniere du Maroc, prior to the privatisation of the four mines," Anas Alami, an analyst at Upline Securities, said.
The other mines are copper producer Societe Miniere de Bou-Gaffer (SOMIFER), fluorite mining company Societe Anonyme d'Entreprise Miniere (SAMINE) and cobalt mine companie de Tifnout Tiranimine (CTT).
The state sold 40 percent of CTT, 35 percent of SAMINE and 34 percent of SOMIFER.
The latest available figures for 1994 showed that Morocco produced 36,010 tonnes of copper, of which SOMIFER accounted for 22,932 tonnes, and 85,000 tonnes of fluorite extracted entirely from the SAMINE mine. Manganese production was estimated at at 30,700 tonnes.
The mines were on a list of 114 state enterprises slated for privatisation by end 1998.
($1= 8.6 dirhams)
-- Ali Bouzerda, Rabat newsroom (212-7) 726518Hydro-Quebec said on Wednesday that it agreed with Nordion International Inc, a unit of MDS Health Group Ltd, for the production of cobalt 60 at its Gentilly-2 nuclear power station.
The five-year agreement, which runs from 1997 to 2002, provides for the production of between 15 and 20 million curies of cobalt 60 and will generate millions of dollars a year in revenues for Hydro-Quebec, the Quebec government-owned utility said.
A previous five-year agreement with Nordion (1985-1989) for the production of 18 million curries of cobalt 60 had not been renewed because of an oversupply situation. Cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt 59 that results from the irradiation of cobalt 59 in a nuclear reactor. The production of cobalt 60 has no effect on the output or safety of the reactor, Hydro-Quebec said.
Cobalt 60 is used for treating cancer, sterilizing medical and surgical products, preserving food, combating food-borne illness and decontaminating waste. Nordion supplies more than 80 percent of the global demand for cobalt 60, Hydro-Quebec said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434MDS Health Group Ltd said it signed agreements to acquire Nebraska-based Harris Laboratories Inc and Montreal-based Neo-Pharm Laboratories Inc, which will more than double MDS's revenue from pharmaceutical services to about C$100 million a year.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
MDS said the acquired companies will be integrated with the existing international contract research operations of MDS and managed through newly formed MDS Pharmaceuticals Service, with operations in Canada, Germany, China, Taiwan, the United States and Britain.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100-- PaineWebber raised its rating on Apria Healthcare Group Inc to buy from attractive, a source at the brokerage said.
-- Further details were not immediately available.
-- The stock was up 3/8 at 22-3/4.-- NatWest Securities said analyst Susan Donofrio initiated coverage of the airline industry.
-- "We are quite bullish on the airline industry, given strong underlying fundamentals," she said.
-- said industry capacity will grow 3.4 percent in 1996 and 2.9 percent in 1997.
-- U.S. airlines are in much better position now to raise fares compared to five years ago, and will help offset re-implementation of the 10 percent U.S. domestic passenger excise tax.
-- said airlines with greatest geographic diversity, especially AMR Corp, UAL Corp, and Delta Air Lines Inc, will be better equipped to handle effects of tax.
-- Delta gained 1/2 to 70-1/4, AMR rose 3/8 to 85, and UAL jumped 3/8 to 50-1/8.  
-- initiated coverage of Delta as buy, UAL as outperform, and USAir Group Inc as hold.
-- USAir was unchanged at 18-3/8.USAir Group Inc said on Wednesday it has filed with the Department of Transportation to serve London's Heathrow Airport from Boston, Charlotte, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.
The airline cited the need for competition in the United States-United Kingdom market in view of the proposed alliance between British Airways Plc and AMR Corp's American Airlines.Sterling Chemicals Inc said Wednesday that its shareholders approved a merger with STX Acquisition Corp.
STX Acquisition Group was formed by a group of private investors led by The Sterling Group Inc and The Unicorn Group LLC.
Sterling Chemicals is being sold to STX Acquisition Group for $12 per share.
The merger, which was announced in April, is expected to close Wednesday.Brite Voice Systems Inc said it had won a $7 million contract to support a marketing campaign by Britain's Cellnet relaunch Callback, its intelligent messaging service.
Cellnet, a mobile telephone network jointly owned by British Telecommunications Plc and Securicor Group Plc, has purchased four additional Voice Services Director platforms for Callback. It is the largest single order ever for Brite.
Brite said the latest order represented another significant Cellnet investment in Brite's systems, for a total commitment of about $18.6 million during the past two years.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Reliance National and an African-American insurance executive said they plan to form a new property-casualty company to insure public utilities and corporations with commitments to buy products and services from minority-owned business enterprises.
Onyx Insurance Co will be capitalized at more than $5 million and will be jointly owned by Aaron Richardson as the majority common shareholder and Reliance National, a unit of Reliance Group Holdings Inc.
Reliance declined to disclose the size of its or Richardson's stake.  
Richardson, a 29-year veteran of the insurance industry, will serve as the chairman and chief executive of Onyx.
Upon approval by the California insurance department, Onyx Insurance Co will be the only African-American owned property-casualty insurance company in the United States.  
"There is clearly a great opportunity for a minority-owned company with sufficient capacity to participate in the insurance programs of public entities and large corporations," said Dennis Busti, chief executive of Reliance National.
Onyx will retain a small portion of each risk and reinsure the remainder through Reliance National, enabling Onyx to spread its risk and quickly establish a broad customer base.
"There are more than 2,600 property-casualty insurance companies in the United States with a combined net income of over $20 billion and assets of nearly $232 billion," Richardson said.
"Yet not one of these companies is African-American owned. The formation of Onyx Insurance Company is an important step toward African-American participation in the economic mainstream of America," he said.
Richardson is the founder and owner of ARISCO (Aaron Richardson Insurance Services Corp), a San Francisco-based property-casualty insurance brokerage that he formed in 1990.
-- New York newsdesk 212-859-1716Venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said on Wednesday it had closed the KPCB Java Fund, a $100 million venture capital fund focused on Java technology-based companies and related Internet, intranet, networking and communications companies.
In a statement, KPCB said corporate partners of the fund include industry leaders in internetworking, personal computers, enterprise computing, Internet software, database software, and communications.  
The companies are Cisco Systems Inc, Comcast Corp, Compaq Computer Corp, International Business Machines Corp, Japan's Itochu Corp Netscape Communications Corp, Oracle Corp, Sun Microsystems Inc, Tele-Communications Inc and U S West Media Group.
Developed by Sun Microsystems, Java is an open platform technology that enables distributed applications, interactivity, security, and platform independence over the Internet as well as intranets. Forty-seven corporations have licensed the technology.
The initial investments in the Java Fund are Active Software, Calico Technology, and Marimba.  Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the Web.
Calico Technology is a provider of interactive, enterprise configuration products.  Marimba provides technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610The Allen Group Inc said its subsidiary MARTA Technologies Inc had lost a contract with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for centralized automobile emissions testing in the Cincinnati area.
In a statement late on Tuesday, the company said the contract was worth about $11 million a year in revenues to MARTA.
MARTA had received a cancellation notice from the agency that was effective Aug 27. The agency also suspended MARTA's operations under the program effective on Wednesday.
The agency cited "alleged problems" for termination of the contract, Allen Group said.
"We strongly disagree with the state of Ohio's ... decision to cancel MARTA's contract," said Allen Group president and chief executive Robert Paul.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Group net result			886 vs  839
 Group pre-tax result		1,326 vs  1,287
 Net interest and fees income    2,072 vs  1,802
 Securities and forex results	-26 vs  236
 Balance end-June 1996	   410,819 vs  398,682 end-June 1995
NOTE - Full name of biggest Danish mortgage credit group is Nykredit A/S. It forecast in a statement full year 1996 operating profit before tax, extraordinary items and portfolio/ currency results of up to DKK 2.2 billion. +45-33969652Year to Dec 31 (in millions of marks unless stated otherwise).
					1995	  1995	 1994
				    (revised)   (original)
 Group net loss		    1,134	  174	 308
 Group balance sheet loss	  952	  nil	 363
 Group loss carry-forward	  363	  363	  55
 Group sales			 3,285	3,288     2,695
 Group output			3,240	3,781     3,131
 Group other oper costs	  1,221	  791	 772
 Group financial result	     39 loss    39 loss   37 loss
 Group loss ord activities     1,187	  227	 276
 Group extraordinary profit	 61	   61	  24 loss
 Group reserve drawdown	    247	  239	 nil
 Group capital decrease	    298	  298	 nil
 Parent net loss		   1,169	  206	 358
 Parent balance sheet loss	 958	  nil	 358
 Parent loss carry-forward	 358	  358	 nil
 Parent drawdown from reserves   271	  266	 nil
 Parent capital decrease	   298	  298	 nil
 Parent other oper costs	   366	  193	 256
 Parent revenue from minorities   36	   46	  37
 Costs from lost absorption   1,090	   311	 277
 Parent financial result	   20	    20	  34
 Loss from ord. activities    1,236	   273	 331
 Parent extraordinary profit     70	    70	  24 loss
NOTE - Diesel engine maker Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG initially reported its 1995 results on April 23, but massive losses that came to light on May 24 led it to make major revisions.
-- Terence Gallagher, Bonn newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			   242     vs 198
NOTE - Full name of the German pharmaceuticals group is Merck KGaA. The profit figure is after tax and minority interests.  
    Group sales (already reported)	 3,444   vs 3,186
    Group capital investment		 235     vs 230
    Group research and development	 316     vs 277
    Group workforce			    28,564  up 1,050
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525The Warehouse said on Wednesday it would begin stocking AEG's range of appliances.
"We have been looking for some time to source a world class appliance range, that would offer our customers real value for money," managing director Stephen Tindall said.  
The managing director of New Zealand's distributor of AEG appliances, Kent Baigent of Kent Baigent Group, said he had also been searching for an innovative way to make their German engineered AEG Appliances more accessible to a wider range of New Zealand consumers.
New Zealand customers were increasingly demanding both higher quality and lower prices.
AEG as one of the foremost brands in Europe is well known for its high performance and quality, and the buying volumes will allow The Warehouse to supply AEG Appliances at the lowest prices ever offered by AEG in New Zealand.  
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746Woodside Petroleum Ltd said on Wednesday repair work would cause crude oil production from its Cossack offshore operation to be reduced by more than half to about 50,000 barrels a day for three weeks in September.  
The curtailment in output would result from the shutdown of the operation's gas export system, a Woodside spokesman told Reuters.
The spokesman said the operation had been mostly producing crude oil at or above its rated capacity of 115,000 barrels a day in recent weeks.
"We're looking at a three-week shut down of the gas export system in September... during that period oil production would probably have to be cutback to around 50,000 barrels a day," the spokesman said. "There is no reason why between now and September we can't maintain full production," he said.  
"We are at the moment capable of maintaining full production," he added
In order to prolong the life of a new dehydration component of the vessel, the repair work is required to rectify faults causing an excess moisture problem, the spokesman said.
"When you shut down the gas export system it means that we have to flare any gas that comes up associated with the oil. Because of limitations on the amount of gas we can flare, we have to reduce oil production accordingly," the spokesman said.  
The joint venture partners in the operation are currently reviewing the repair work, which is likely to occur in the last three weeks of September, the spokesman said.
"We could carry on with constant interuptions to the system, but it's much better to bite the bullet and try and rectify the problem completely," he said.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside, Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.  
Woodside shares were 2.0 cents up at A$7.72 by 1.25 p.m. (0325 GMT).
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Six months ending June 30 1996
(in millions of Singapore dollars unless stated)
   Net profit			15.45  vs   22.26
   Group shares (cents)	  13.90  vs   20.00
   Dividend (cents)		 3.75  vs    7.50
    Turnover		    191.47     vs   153.66
    Other income		  4.98     vs     4.89
    Associates		    1.75     vs     3.47
    Pretax			 22.54     vs    30.41
    Tax			     5.97     vs     8.14
    Minorities (loss)	   1.12     vs     0.01
    Dividend register/pay -   Sept 23 / Oct 11
Note - Full name is Jurong Shipyard Ltd.
--Singapore newsroom (65-8703080)Showa Shell Sekiyu KK has started to study the possibility of selling oil products to the rest of Asia, a company spokesman said on Wednesday.
The leading Japanese oil refiner and distributor is owned 50 percent by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
The Shell group has traditionally asked its subsidiaries to concentrate their business in the country where the unit is located.
It revised that thinking this year when it divided its worldwide operations into four blocks, allowing a certain amount of freedom within each area.
The spokesman said Showa Shell has begun to look into the possibility of selling oil products, such as lubricants, in the growing Chinese market.
The study will be made jointly with the Shell group's Chinese arm.The plight of South Korea's home builder Kun Young Construction, seeking court receivership under a pile of debt, signals a further shakeout in the country's construction industry, analysts said on Wednesday.
"Bubbles in the housing industry are bursting so quickly while many contractors are unprepared," said Park Chan-ik, an analyst at Hyundai Securities.
"A downsizing of the industry looks inevitable."
He said many construction firms might be forced to shut down over the next few years unless they shifted to other business lines such as civil engineering, which had good prospects for growth on rising infrastructure investment.
"Some have already begun laying off workers. Others are selling off land for construction or pulling out of the housing sector," Park said.
A construction boom in the late 1980s and early 1990s, sparked by the government's plan to provide two million homes, mostly apartments, more than tripled the number of contractors to 3,000 in the past five years.  
After most of those apartments were completed, demand for new homes fell rapidly and many builders began suffering from falling profits.
Analysts said Kun Young, the nation's 21st largest contractor, was particularily vulnerable because of its over-expansion. It had to offer various perks to win redevelopment projects, a practice that also squeezed Woosung Construction out of business in January.
Woosung was taken over by the Hanil Group.
Kun Young now has more than 400 billion won ($489 million) stuck in construction of 14,000 apartments nationwide.
The company was dragged into many of the projects as it had to cover costs on fixed investment. But interest payments piled up while sales plummeted.
Kun Young defaulted on 1.26 billion won worth of promissory notes on Monday. It avoided bankruptcy by paying the debt by Tuesday, but filed for court receivership seeking protection from its creditors.
The company was near an agreement on Tuesday on a takeover by a consortium led by unlisted Dongsung Construction Co Ltd.  
But its prime lender, SEOULBANK, rejected the deal, casting doubt on Dongsung's ability to write off Kun Young's debts.
"We want a new owner who can fully cover all Kun Young's liabilities," said a official at the bank. "We are willing to endorse Kun Young's plan to seek court receivership rather than letting the company go bust."
He said bankruptcy was unthinkable because of severe damage to Kun Young's sub-contractors and customers.
SEOULBANK was expected to take over the management of Kun Young when the application was approved by the court until a buyer was found, he said.
Court receivership would spark hot competition for Kun Young because it would freeze all Kun Young's assets and debts, analysts said.
"One good thing about Kun Young is that it has more assets than debts," said a broker at Daishin Securities.
Kun Young's current liabilities amount to 550 billion won while assets are 800 billion won.
Analysts said the problems in the industry would linger as long as failing companies were not allowed to sink.  
"The tradition of bailing out failing companies impedes efficient allocation of funds," said Lee Hahn-ku, president of Daewoo Research Institute. "Such a policy does not fit the economy which is opening rapidly to foreign competition."Year to May 31, 1996
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 29.90		28.83
 Current	    525    mln	 540    mln
 Net		  260    mln	 278    mln
 EPS		   60.68 yen	  65.00 yen
NOTE - Otake Corp is a specialist trader of valves, pipe coupling and other piping materials.Year to May 31, 1996
 (Group)	(in billions of yen unless specified)
 Sales		 28.83		vs	   27.27
 Operating	  576    million    vs	  683    million
 Current	    540    million    vs	  489    million
 Net		  278    million    vs	  205    million
 EPS		   65.00 yen	  vs	   58.83 yen
NOTE - Otake Corp is a specialist trader of valves, pipe coupling and other piping materials.Year to March 31, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		186.00	     180.00	     176.18
 Current	     10.00		 7.70		 6.68
 Net		    4.00		 3.30		 2.40
NOTE - Showa Aluminum Corp is an aluminium processor belonging to the Showa Denko KK group.Year to June 30, 1997
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		 28.20		27.40
 Current	    970    mln	 943    mln
 Net		  460    mln	 329    mln
 EPS		   49.49 yen	  35.48 yen
NOTE - Ichimasa Kamaboko Co Ltd is a major marine paste product manufacturer.Year to June 30, 1996
 (Group)	(in billions of yen unless specified)
 Sales		 27.40		vs	   27.78
 Operating	    1.30		vs	    1.26
 Current	    943    million    vs	  633    million
 Net		  329    million    vs	  277    million
 EPS		   35.48 yen	  vs	   29.82 yen
NOTE - Ichimasa Kamaboko Co Ltd is a major marine paste product manufacturer.Year to December 31, 1996
		   (in billions of yen unless specified)
			   LATEST	    PREVIOUS	   ACTUAL
 (Group)		FORECAST	   FORECAST	  YEAR-AGO
 Sales		  7.33		 7.70		 6.83
 Current	    916    mln	 658    mln	 684    mln
 Net		  586    mln	 477    mln	 499    mln
NOTE - Nippon Ceramic Co Ltd is a top manufacturer of fine ceramics-based sensors.Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.Property concern Asia Standard International Group Ltd said on Wednesday it was planning a US$60 million five-year term convertible bonds issue.
The company said it has invited Merrill Lynch Far East Ltd and Creditanstalt Asia Ltd to lead manage a proposed issue of convertible bonds.
The size of the bonds is expected to be US$60 million with an option granted to lead managers to require the issue of an additional US$15 million bonds, it said.
"The terms of the issue, including the aggregate amount, redemption price, interest rate and conversion terms, have not been finalised but it is currently expected that the bonds will be guaranteed, have a five-year term and be convertible into shares of the company," said chairman Clement Fung in the statement.
The bond is expected to be listed in Luxembourg.
Net proceeds from the bonds are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, it said.
Shares of Asia Standard were untraded at HK$1.54 in mid-morning.
-- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6370Indonesia's PT Bank Lippo said on Wednesday it posted a net profit of 54.90 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against 45.95 billion rupiah in the same period last year.  
Six months to June 30, 1996
(in billion rupiah unless stated)
    Net interest income		   210.28 vs 185.43
    Other operating income		 46.65 vs 40.77
    Pre-tax profit			   78.93 vs 65.43
    Net profit				 54.90 vs 45.95
    Retained earnings		     275.19 vs 182.49
Note: The consolidated results were unaudited. Bank Lippo, a member of the widely-diversified conglomerate Lippo Group, is one of Indonesia's largest banks.Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit			 185   vs    223
    Group sales				 11,680   vs 11,526
Sales breakdown by division:
    Engineering				  1,374   vs  1,276
    Plant construction			   789   vs    584
    Automotive				   1,477   vs  1,537
    Processing				   1,346   vs  1,503
    Stainless steel flat, nirosta	  2,790   vs  1,946
    Quality steel, sections		  2,433   vs  3,071
    Trading and services		     2,896   vs  3,263
    Other units				    429   vs    453
    Group orders				12,676   vs 12,397
Orders breakdown by division:
    Engineering				  1,498   vs  1,631
    Plant construction			 1,526   vs    845
    Automotive				   1,503   vs  1,568
    Processing				   1,368   vs  1,673
    Stainless steel flat, nirosta	  2,549   vs  1,892
    Quality steel, sections		  2,492   vs  2,898
    Trading and services		     3,082   vs  3,419
    Other units				    431   vs    464
NOTE - Full name of the German Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Calendar 1995 and Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group loss				   1,134   vs n/a
First half of 1996:
    Group profit				 819.6   vs 184.1 loss
    Group loss excl. rescue plan	   108.9   vs 184.1 loss
NOTE - Full name of the German Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG. The company said the effects of its rescue by banks and creditors, carrying forward losses from 1994 and drawing down reserves would completely offset the 1995 loss.
These measures were also responsible for allowing the company to report a profit in the first half of 1996. Excluding the special effects of the 928.7 million mark rescue plan, KHD made a loss of 108.9 million marks in the first half of 1996.
It said this result was better than expected. Particularly in the motor division earnings continued to improve, it said.
The company said it expected group sales in 1996 to match the previous year. It gave no figures. It added that with the effects of cash aid totalling more than 800 million marks it was aiming to achieve break-even this year.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     22	vs 30.2
    Group sales (exluding Nanz group)    4,300   vs 4,100
NOTE - Full name of the German food retail group is AVA Allgemeine Handelsgesellschaft der Verbraucher AG.  
On a same-store basis, sales rose 1.4 percent, AVA said. The company said the first-half earnings decline was caused by start-up costs for new sites.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30:
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     185     vs 223
    Group incoming orders		    12,700  up two pct
    Group sales				  11,700  up one pct
    Group workforce on June 30	     72,000  vs 69,000
    Group investment			    1,500  vs n/a
NOTE - Full name of the German steel and engineering group is Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
The company said in a statement that all six business divisions were profitable in the first half of the year. The decline in pre-tax profit in the period was attributed to the weak overall economy, which had a strong impact on the steel industry and related sectors, it said.
Of total investment in the first half, 1.1 billion marks were spent on acquisitions and 400 million marks on investment in plant. As a result, Krupp said financial debt rose to correspond with business volume.
-- Bonn Newsroom, 49 228 2609750Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million Sfr unless stated)
 Group net incl minorities  941		 vs 749
 Minorities		     111		 vs 58
 Net profit,exclu minority  830		 vs 691
 Gross income		   6,392	     vs 5,350
 Gross profit before taxes  2,461	     vs 1,978
 Return on equity, ROE, pct 10.5		vs 9.0
 ROE, exclu minorities	9.7		 vs 8.7
Losses, write-downs  depreciation, provisions   1,120	     vs 930
 Taxes			    400		 vs 299
 Net from b/s business	1,768	     vs 1,632
 Net commission income	2,419	     vs 1,908
 Trading income		 1,896	     vs 1,525
  of which forex, metals    527		 vs 470
  of which securities,other 1,369	     vs 1,055
 Investment in companies    44		  vs 79
 Other income		   265		 vs 206
 Staff expense		  2,864	     vs 2,366
 Total operating expenses   3,931	     vs 3,372
 Other operating expense    1,067	     vs 1,006
 Total assets		   483,742	   vs 412,724
 Loans			    200,275	   vs 177,231
 Securities		     87,709	    vs 67,196
 Real Estate		    6,154	     vs 6,144
-- Zurich Newsroom, 41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million U.S. dollars unless stated)
 Gross profit pre-tax	 256		 vs 164
 Group revenues		 1,400	     vs 1,022
 Group expenses		 1,144	     vs 858
 Total assets		   149,410	   vs 133,757
NOTE - CS First Boston is a unit of CS Holding responsible for worldwide investment banking outside Switzerland.
-- Zurich newsroom +41-1-631 7340Six months to June 30, 1996
				   (million Sfr unless stated)
 Gross profit pre-tax	 1,966	     vs 1,679
 Group total income	   4,442	     vs 3,950
 Group total expenditure    2,476	     vs 2,271
 Interest business income   1,440	     vs 1,409
 Commission, fee income     1,545	     vs 1,310
 Trading income		 1,232	     vs 1,054
 Other ordinary income	225		 vs 177
 Staff costs		    1,704	     vs 1,591
 General expenses	     772		 vs 680
 Total assets		   279,427	   vs 244,575
NOTE - Credit Suisse Group is the full-service banking arm of CS Holding. CS Holding's interim report said the financial statement was prepared in accordance with new accounting rules for Swiss banks and include fund manager Credis on a fully consolidated basis. Last year's interim figures have been adjusted for comparison. -- Zurich Newsroom, 41-1-258 7340Tough U.S. tobacco curbs due to be confirmed on Friday virtually eliminate the possibility of Britain's B.A.T Industries following Hanson Plc and demerging its tobacco unit, analysts said on Thursday.
Despite denials of any such plans by B.A.T, speculation that it would seek to ring-fence its financial services unit from the potentially rough ride awaiting its cigarette business has grown since Anglo-U.S. conglomerate Hanson announced in January it would seek to hive off its Imperial Tobacco subsidiary.
The last five months have seen an escalation in planned anti-tobacco litigation since the decision by Brooke Group's Liggett in March to settle a huge class action over its share of possible liability.
Analysts now believe investor sentiment against B.A.T, whose exposure to the U.S. market is much higher than Imperial, has turned to a point that a demerger is now no longer even an option for restoring share value.
"At B.A.T's current price, we calculate that the U.S. tobacco interests are valued at significantly less than nothing," said Chris Hitchings, an analyst at brokerage UBS.
With B.A.T shares having fallen a further 25 pence to 421 after news on Wednesday that President Bill Clinton was expected to endorse new rules to limit youth access to cigarettes, the group is valued well below the sum of its component parts.
UBS's Hitchings estimated that B.A.T was worth some 16.3 billion pounds ($25 billion) on a "sum of the parts" valuation against a current market capitalisation of 13 billion pounds, a shortfall rooted in fears for its U.S. tobacco arm's future.
Eradicate these concerns, and B.A.T's entire tobacco interests covering markets in the Americas, Africa, Europe and the Far East would carry a debt-free valuation of some nine billion pounds.
But even if those fears ease, the investment that the tobacco arm would need to fully exploit attractive new markets in eastern Europe and the Far East would hamper its ability to pay dividends, Hitchins added.
"A low-yielding tobacco stock is not going to be desperately attractive to investors," he said.
But some analysts believe B.A.T may yet be pressured into considering such a move if U.S. tobacco groups RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp and Philip Morris Cos Inc decide to isolate the more threatened parts of their business.
"The catalyst will be what happens to those two," said one analyst who declined to be named, noting that RJR Nabisco had in the past been the subject of unsuccessful break-up attempts.
Other industry observers insist the fears for the global tobacco industry are overdone and that B.A.T, Imperial and privatisation candidates such as Spain's Tabacalera and Portugal's Tabaqueira have strong, long-term markets to tap.
"With the eastern markets available, opportunities in tobacco have never been bigger," Nikko Europe analyst Rowan Morgan said.
He noted that it was "staggering" how far the United States was behind other countries in laying down effective measures to reduce smoking among minors and suggested that the measures due to be endorsed were an understandable attempt to catch up.
"If you want to write tobacco off, you might be surprised," Morgan said. ($1=.6458 Pound)Union CAL Ltd said it has launched a group of hedge funds that will allow smaller investors, instead of only wealthy private investors or large institutions, access to the sector for the first time.
The Helix Group of Funds will initially comprise of three share classes -- a global leverage fund, a currency fund and a volatility fund. Each will aim for returns significantly above leading indices.
"Until now, hedge funds were the investment industry's last great secret but with the arrival of the Helix funds, barriers to investment in these vehicles have been removed," said director Paul Gleeson. The offer period runs from September 1 to October 14 with a minimum $100,000 investment. The offer price is $100 per share, with a two-percent launch discount.
The Global Leverage fund will invest in a core group of commodity-based assets using derivatives and leverage to provide shareholders with absolute returns.
The Currency fund will tap world interbank spot and forward foreign exchange markets and aim to provide "consistent low volatility growth."
The volatility fund "has a more aggressive style of trading" than the other classes and will ride volatility waves to achieve "robust " rates of return, Gleeson said. The company declined to disclose who would be trading advisors for the funds. Initial charges for the funds are five percent, plus a two-percent annual management fee and a performance fee, calculated monthly, of 20 percent on net new highs.
The Helix funds will be registered in the British Virgin Islands and listed in Dublin. The custodian is the Bermuda Trust (Dublin) Ltd, with Union Global Securities Ltd as the investment manager and Union CAL Ltd as the clearing broker.
Dealing and redemption is monthly, and investors may switch classes monthly at no charge.
Union CAL Ltd and Union Global Securities Ltd are both wholly owned subsidiaries of Union Plc.
-- Caroline Allen, London Investment desk, +44 171 542 6414Den Danske Bank on Thursday said that core earnings rose 43 percent in the first half of 1996 but the pace of growth was unlikely to last.
"In the second half of 1996, core earnings, including earnings from insurance operations, are not likely to reach the level recorded in the first six months, but core earnings for the year are expected to improve somewhat on 1995," it said.
Releasing half-year results slightly down on the same period last year, the bank, Denmark's biggest, said that earnings from currency and securities dealing fell by 35 percent.
"Group results for 1996 will be particularly influenced by year-end bond and share prices," it said, making no forecast.
It logged a 1996 first half pre-tax ordinary result of 2.381 billion crowns ($415.2 million), down from 2.537 billion during the same period last year but above the most optimistic of forecasts by a panel of analysts whose estimates ranged from 1.250 to 2.250 billion.
Core earnings were up to 1.793 billion crowns in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1.257 billion during the first half of 1995. Full-year 1995 core earnings were 2.785 billion crowns.
But profit from stocks and foreign exchange slid to 585 million crowns from 906 million in the same period last year.
Provisions were almost halved, to 341 million crowns from 661 million, but the bank quoted its chief executive as saying that they would be likely to rise again in the future.
"Knud Soerensen said that provisions could probably not be maintained at this low level through a normal economic cycle," the report said.
It added that although provisioning in the second half was already likely to show an increase over the first six months, the figure for the full year was expected to be lower than 1995's 1.254 billion.
The bank said it returned 15.6 percent on equity.
The Copenhagen stock market welcomed the report, sending the bank's share up 8.5 crowns to 404.5 after the announcement, although it later settled back to 402.00 crowns.
Soerensen later told Reuters that he aimed to increase group profitability further by a fresh round of cost-cutting, after triiming outgoings by 91 million crowns to 3.067 billion during the 1996 first half.
"We are a little careful about anticipating a continued fall in our costs but we will work with that aim," he said.
Staff cuts of almost 700 to a present force of 11,000 have helped bring about cost reductions.
Den Danske Bank's closest rival, Unidanmark, on Tuesday filed first half profits up 18 percent to 1.275 billion crowns, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. -- Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.735 Danish Crown)Britain's Rentokil Group Plc Thursday reported a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil, with businesses ranging from pest control to security systems, had a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds ($208.2 million) in the six months to June 30, at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change to Rentokil Initial Plc follows the group's 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
Chief Executive Sir Clive Thompson said the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He said Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's revenue more than doubled to 842 million pounds ($1.3 billion) from 400.9 million ($620.6 million) in the year-ago period. Shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence (2.79 cents), up from 1.23 pence (1.9 cents).
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds ($533.0 million) to turnover and 15.1 million pounds ($23.4 million) to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr. 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds (724.0 million) and profit grew by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds ($184.8 million).
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence ($63.78), up three pence (4.6 cents) in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds ($30.9 million).
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.Britain's Rentokil Group Plc on Thursday notched up a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil made a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds in the six months to June 30, just at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change follows the pest control-to-security group's victorious 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
The firm now aims to be called Rentokil Initial Plc.
Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He added Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's turnover more than doubled to 842 million pounds from 400.9 million and shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence up from 1.23 pence.
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds to turnover and 15.1 million pounds to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact on Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds and profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds.
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence pence, up three pence in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds.
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
Plans for the integration of hospital services and hygiene and health care are also well advanced, he said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
But Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals. "We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.
($1=.6460 Pound)---------------------------------------------------------------
		     DAY'S RANGE * SUPPORT * RESTNCE* MA-25 * MA-200
 Ladbroke Group    200-206   *   180   *   206  *  192  *  177
---------------- VIEWS FROM THE MARKET - Aug 22 ---------------
+ Ladbroke shares appear ready to breakout above 206p resistance and to go up to 220p, technical analysts said.
+ The stock's long-term downtrend from 1991 looks to be over and a bullish golden cross pattern -- with the 25 day moving average crossing above the 200 day average -- was made in February. The shares are also starting to pick-up relative to the FTSE 100 index.  
Shares in hotels and leisure company Ladbroke Group Plc look set to climb past this year's peak at 206p and go on to about 220p long-term, technical analysts said.
From a peak of 205p in April the shares have been marking time until their latest surge from 180p in July.
"A move to 220p is expected before the next consolidation phase will be due," said Robin Griffiths, technical analyst at HSBC James Capel.
By 0810 GMT, Ladbroke shares were up a penny to 202p.  
"The stock was in a (long-term) bear trend from 1991 until last November," said Griffiths. "From then on the pattern has been positive and a golden cross was made in February."
By that he implied the stock's 25 day moving average had crossed above the 200 day average and this usually signals a long-term uptrend for the shares.
From chart theory it is said that after a significant share price move, the price tends to retrace part of that move before rejoining the original trend and such retracements are made in certain percentage of the original move.  
For Ladbroke a normal 33 percent retracement of the 80p rise between November 1995 to April this year took the share price to 180p in July and it now appears set to challenge resistance at 206p.
With the relative strength chart -- of Ladbroke's share price divided by the FTSE 100 index -- showing a positive stance, the odds favour a strengthening of the share price, said Griffiths.
"From the July low at 180p we now have a new buy signal confirmed by relative strength," he said.
-- Pradip Mishra, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7954Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it is pleased with its acquisition of rival BET earlier this year and the acquired firm's operations have great potential within the enlarged group.
"We are very pleased with what we have seen...the upside opportunities are excellent," chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told a news conference after the firm's half year results.
Thompson confirmed the group did not plan any major disposals from BET despite having had a number of approaches for most parts of the firm and even Rentokil's own pest control operation.  
"We had approaches from a lot of people for almost every part of BET," he said.
Thompson said the firm had not lost any meaningful business because of the turmoil of the takeover bid. "We are not aware that, as a result of the acquisition, we have lost any significant accounts," he added.
One piece of unfinished business from the BET buy is a legal wrangle with the target firm's former chief executive John Clark. Thompson said Clark would appear in the High Court on October 7 as part of his battle to win 3.3 million stg in compensation for his dismissal.  
Thompson would not disclose Rentokil's compensation offer but said all the other former BET board members had accepted it. "We are surprised that Mr Clark has not accepted what we consider to be a generous offer," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717British Polythene Industries Plc said on Thursday it had bought two Jefferson Smurfit Group Plc subsidiaries for an undisclosed sum.
The trading units acquired were Swains Packaging and Smurfit Packaging Products based in Essex outside London and Manchester, northern England, respectively.Traded options in BAT Industries were active on Thursday as traders took positions while the underlying shares plunged, dealers said.
A belief that, given time, shares in the tobacco-to-insurance group will recover, may have been the reason why one trader bought 1,500 April 460 calls at 25p. Another deal was to buy 1,000 lots in the same series at 27p.
By 1505 GMT, BAT shares were down 21p to 425p.
There was also a seller of a calendar put spread which was established by selling 250 November 500 puts at 74-1/2p and buying 250 January 500 puts at 74p for a net credit of 1/2p.  
This is effectively like having a long put position for next to nothing.
The deals in BAT were prompted by expectaions of stringent moves in the U.S. concerning tobacco companies.
The main trade in supermarket chain Asda Group was the purchase of 1,000 April 180 calls at 8-1/2p. The shares added a penny to 119p and they will go ex-dividend by 1.93p net of basic tax on Monday.
Also active was insurer Prudential Corp  with the November 460 calls particularly in demand from traders buying in lot sizes of 200, 250 and 400 at prices from 12p to 15p.
Prudential shares raced up 18p to 443p ahead of the insurance sector reporting season in September.
Elsewhere, there was a short strangle in retailer Kingfisher achieved by selling 300 February 650 puts at 28p as well as 300 February 700 calls at 24-1/2p.
Kingfisher was 8p better at 668p.
Over in food manufacturer United Biscuits, there was a buyer of 500 November 220 calls at 6-1/2p. The shares added 2p to 211p.
-- Pradip Mishra, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7954Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it is sticking with its 20 percent growth target which the pest control-to-security firm has met for the past 14 years.
"The objective remains," chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told a news conference.
Earlier the firm posted first half results that beat its goal as it saw pre-tax profit rise 35.6 percent to 134.5 million stg. Excluding the contribution from its massive buy of BET, Rentokil said the firm's profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million stg.  
The firm's shares rose on the figures and by 1141 GMT were up 8-1/2 pence to 417-1/2p.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the firm was trying to bring in its management culture to the acquired group. He said BET had been marked by greater independence for its units, while Rentokil concentrated more on high performance and centralisation.
The firm also earlier announced it plans to change its name to Rentokil Initial Plc in an effort to focus its diverse operations around the two brand names of Initial and Rentokil.  
Corporate affairs director Charles Grimaldi said the process of rebranding all of the firm's operations would be a lengthy and gradual one, but that doing it slowly would incur less costs.
"In terms of extra cost it will be very limited...it will not be overnight," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769The following are additions and deletions to the takeovers and mergers list for the week beginning August 19, as provided by the Takeover Panel.
 COMPANY BID FOR			  BIDDER
ADDITIONS
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clerk Residential Unit)
Trust)
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
DELETIONS
 Innovations Group Plc	Burton Group Plc
 Lyons Irish Holdings Plc   Unilever Ireland Plc
 Suter Plc		     Ascot Holdings Plc
 .................CURRENT TAKEOVERS AND MERGERS................
	     ( * indicates discussions in progress)
 Automated Security		     ADT Limited
(Holding) Plc
 Ballynatray		    Capital & Western
 Holdings Plc			     Estates Plc
 Blenheim Group Plc	   *
British Data Management Plc *
 Cable London Plc			 Telewest Communications Plc
 Cardcast Plc  )			  *
Card Clear Plc)
 Continental Foods Plc	CF Holdings
 Dundee Football Club Plc	     *
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc    Pemberstone Plc
 Fourth Roman Property Trust Plc)   *
The Neill Clark Residential Unit)
Trust)
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  CLM Insurance Fund
 Trust Plc			Plc
 HCG Lloyds Investment		  The Benfield & Rea
 Trust Plc			Investment Trust Plc
 Jacks (William) Plc		    Jacks International
						Ltd
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   TR European Growth
 Investment Trust Plc	 Trust Plc
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc    )
Kleinwort Benson Investment
 Management			    )
 Kleinwort European Privatisation   *
 Investment Trust Plc     )
 M&G Group Plc		)
 Midlands Residential		   Pemberstone Plc
Corporation Plc
 Milieutech Plc			   Optimax Investments Ltd
 Neilson Cobbold			  Rathbone Brothers
 Holdings Plc		   Plc
 Norcity II Plc		 Norcity Residential
						Unit Trust
 Norhomes Plc	     )   *
Norcity Residential Unit Trust )
 Oriel Group Plc		*
 PCT Group			Knightsbridge (Property
						and Investments) Co Ltd
 Park Food Group Plc )	*
 Mr Stuart Marks    )
 Pegasus Group Plc	    *
 Pelican Group Plc	    Whitbread
						Plc
 Peoples Phone Company Plc (The)    *
 Radio Wyvern Plc			 *
 Retirement Assured Limited	   Housing 21
 Rexmore Plc		   Rosebys Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   Pemberstone Plc
 Roman Recoveries Plc		   *
 Savoy Hotel Plc	    *
 Scottish Pride Holdings Plc	 )*
Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc)
 South Eastern Recovery		 Pemberstone Plc
Assured Homes Plc
 South Eastern Recovery Assured     The Neill Clerk
 Homes Plc				  Residential Unit Trust
 Tom Cobleigh Plc	     *
 United Friendly		Refuge Group Plc
Group Plc
 Videotron Holdings Plc		 *
--London Newsroom + 44 171 542 7945British pest control to security group Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it plans no major disposals from its acquired rival BET.
Earlier this year Rentokil won a fierce battle to buy BET for 2.1 billion stg and said that it would consider the future of BET's Plant Hire, Style and Resorts International unit.
But chief executive Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals.
"We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.Shares in Zeneca Group surged to a record in pre-market dealings as speculation about a merger heated up, traders said.
The shares were up 19p to 1533p.  
Talk that Natwest issued a buy note on Zeneca also bolstered the shares, they said. Natwest declined to comment.
The entire British pharmaceutical sector was lifted yesterday by the recurring bid rumours. The latest talk involves Swiss giant Roche Holding AG.
But today, Zeneca appeared to move alone, leaving behind Glaxo Wellcome, which was only up 5p to 918p, and SmithKline Beecham, down 1p to 742p.
"It's just more of the same bid rumours and it seems to be coming from the States," said one market-maker.  
Zeneca's ADRs jumped $1-5/8 to $71 in the U.S. after a strong performance in London yesterday. ADRs in Glaxo and SmithKline rose fractionally.
--Debra Sherman, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4026Engineering firm Weir Group Plc repeated its earlier forecast that the second-half results will be stronger than in the first half and that the group will make full-year progress.
Weir earlier reported that first-half pre-tax profit fell 4.8 percent to 19.2 million stg, partly due to a lower profit contribution from Devonport Dockyard.
"Although the setback at Devonport is not helpful, nevertheless we can see no reason at this time for changing our views (on the full-year outlook)," chairman Viscount Weir said in a statement.
Devonport was hit by significant disruptions to its refitting programme due to modifications to meet increased safety requirements for existing docks.
Additionally, there was a slower than normal settlement of contracts with the Ministry of Defence, Weir Group said.
Beisdes Devonport, first-half results were also hit by a worse performance of Strachan and Henshaw, but this had been expected, Weir said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Half year July 27, 1996
			   (million stg unless stated)
 Shr (pence)		0.18 gain	    vs 1.49 loss
 Dividend (pence)	 2.40		   vs 1.20
 Pretax		     0.05 profit	  vs 0.49 loss
 Turnover		   28.1		   vs 24.8
 Trading profit	   0.57		   vs 0.08
 Interest payable	 0.51		   vs 0.57
 Tax			  0.01		   vs 0.16
 Net taxed		  0.04 profit	  vs 0.33 loss
 Pay date		   December 16
 Div registration date  November 5
 Ex-div date		October 28
NOTE - Goldsmiths Group Plc is a jewellery firm. The firm said the retail trading environment is still fragile, but that the firm is trading well.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday it aims to change its company name to Rentokil Initial Plc.
The move comes after the 2.1 billion stg acquisition of rival BET, which brought with it the Initial brand name, earlier in the year.
"It is proposed to change the name of the company...to reflect the plans to develop two international brands, Rentokil and Initial," the firm said in its first half results statement.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Analysts' estimates of UK company results expected in week ending August 23 include -
COMPANY---------PFT/DIV/EPS--CONSENSUS----RANGE-------PVS
THURSDAY, Aug 22
 Rentokil ** I    PFT	137.7	135.0-141.0   99.2
 Group Plc	  DIV	  1.48	   n/a	 1.23
FRIDAY, Aug 23 - No major companies reporting
NOTES -
** The Rentokil forecasts are pre exceptional and include
two months of profits from BET.
All profit figures are pretax, exclude exceptional items
unless otherwise stated and are in millions stg. Dividends
are total net and quoted as pence per share.
John Sutherland, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7945Ford Motor Co said Thursday it has sold all of USL Capital's Real Estate Financing (REF) mortgages to Bankers Trust Co for about $575 million.
This sale of the majority of REF's assets essentially completes Ford's sale of USL Capital's six business units. Ford said that it expects to receive cash proceeds after taxes of more than $1 billion from the USL Capital sales.
USL Capital, a commercial financing and leasing company headquartered in San Francisco, has been part of Ford's Financial Services Group.  
Proceeds from the sales will be used to reduce the Financial Services Group debt, Ford said in a statement.
Results of the sales will be reported with Ford's third or fourth quarter financial statements, depending on when the separate business unit sales are closed.
The sales of USL Capital's Rail Services and Fleet Services business units closed in July.
The sale of the Transportation and Industrial financing unit was announced July 26 and the sale of the Business Equipment Financing unit on August 6 both are expected to close in the third quarter.
Nearly all of the corporate and municipal financing portfolios have now been sold or have sales arrangements in place.
Ford purchased USL Capital, then known as U.S. Leasing, in 1987 for $512 million. USL Capital had owned or managed assets of $9.7 billion, 640 employees, 70 U.S. branches and pre-tax earnings of $300 million at year-end 1995.
About 60 percent of USL Capital employees have been offered employment by the acquiring companies.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787Shares in Philip Morris Cos Inc continued to fall preceding Thursday's U.S. market open, deepening a rout that began yesterday on expected tougher federal regulations and new cigarette-related lawsuits.
Philip Morris shares traded at 87 before the regular-session start, off 5/8, traders said.
They reported no moves in other tobacco issues in early pre-open activity, including RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, Brooke Group Ltd and UST Inc.John Fields' strategy is simple: Find stocks that are out of favor and underpriced, with potential for earnings growth.
The portfolio manager of Delaware Group Decatur Total Return Fund starts with a look at the yield. "It's a dividend yield driven investment style," Fields said. "We can't buy or hold a stock that does not have a dividend yield greater than the S&P 500." The yield for the S&P 500 is about 2.21 percent.  
Fields said the strategy, which has been in use since 1957, forces him to focus on stocks that are either out of favor or off most investors' radar screens.
Under the second criteria, the $635 million fund seeks stocks that pack earnings power. "We're looking for earnings surprises," Fields said, "something a little better than the market expects."
The stocks are "ones that anyone would be proud to own over time. They're not broken-down companies," Fields said.
He cited Pitney Bowes Inc, one of the fund's top picks, currently yielding about 2.89 percent.  
"It usually does not have a yield superior to the S&P," he said. "The only thing we can find (to explain it) is the boredom factor. Does mailroom automation turn you on?
"It's a fine company, with above-average returns, and it just kind of drifted off the radar screen," he said, adding that he sees it generating double-digit earnings, revenue and dividend growth.
Among sectors, Fields is currently focused on banking stocks, which he sees as "the growth story in the market," and the pharmaceutical sector, which has above-average yields and healthy earnings growth.  
The fund's top holding is DuPont Co, about 2.8 percent of the portfolio. Other big picks include Philip Morris Cos Inc, McGraw-Hill Cos Inc, Union Pacific Corp, SmithKline Beecham, British Petroleum Co Plc, Mobil Corp, Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, and May Department, Stores Co.
Fields said in recent weeks the fund added Philip Morris, under some pressure in recent weeks due to investor concern over tobacco litigation, May, Pitney and DuPont. The fund recently sold British Petroleum and U.S. Bancorp.  
Fields doesn't place big bets, crafting a portfolio with about 70 stocks, none more than three percent of total assets.
Currently common stocks make up 98 percent of the fund, convertible issues 1 percent, and cash one percent. That breakdown has barely changed in the last six months. The fund is usually fully invested, Fields said.
According to Lipper Analytical Services, the fund's return year to date is 6.91 percent versus 6.78 percent for the average income fund. For 1995, it returned 30.51 percent versus 30.21 average for the group, and over five years, 13.77 percent versus 12.8 percent.
-- jeff.benkoe@reuters.com. 212-859-1700Andover Togs Inc said it had reached an agreement with The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc for a two-year $15 million revolving credit facility.
The company said in a Wednesday statement that the agreement, which is subject to final documentation, is expected to be completed this week and submitted for approval by the Bankruptcy Court.
Upon approval by the court, this new facility will replace the company's existing $11 million credit facility which is due to terminate in December 1996.
The maker of children's wear filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 19.
-- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610Six months to June 30, 1996
					  (million crowns unless stated)
Group pre-tax & extraordinary items result  2,381 vs 2,537  
 Group pre-tax result			2,353  vs 2,449
 Net interest and fees income	    4,629  vs 4,838
 Securities and forex results		585  vs 905.8
 Losses and bad debt provisions	    341  vs 661
 Capital ratio (percent)		     9.1  vs 10.6
Own capital end-June 96 23.09 billion vs 20.31 bln end-June 95
Balance end-June 96	412 billion  vs   349 bln end-June 95
NOTE - Full name of biggest Danish banking group Den Danske Bank A/S. It forecast in a statement a better whole year 1996 core activities result than last year. The result was above analyst expectations.
--Copenhagen newsroom +45-33-969650Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output		5,500   up 9.3 pct
	 Of which domestic		     3,320   up 2.0 pct
	 Of which foreign			2,190   up 22.4 pct
    Incoming orders			    8,480   up 62.1 pct
	 Of which domestic		     3,363   up 1.9 pct
	 Of which foreign			4,850   up 190.8 pct
    Orders in hand			     14,050  up 32.7 pct
	 Of which domestic		     6,070  down 8.1 pct
	 Of which foreign			7,980   up 100.2 pct
    Staff					  41,943  up 5.8 pct
	 Of which domestic		     21,445  down 1.7 pct
	 Of which foreign			20,498  up 14.8 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German construction group is Hochtief AG. The group noted that its order figures included one single major order for the Athens airport, which added 2.38 billion marks to the total. Without this order, foreign orders would have risen 48 percent and overall orders would have risen 16.6 percent.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525.Six months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless otherwise stated)
    Group construction output	     5,500   up 9.3 pct
    Group incoming orders		   8,480   up 62.1 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German building group is Hochtief AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Life assurance		    2,210	vs	   1,458
 Non-life insurance		  649	vs	     656
 UNI Storebrand ASA		   97	vs     minus 151
 Storebrand Bank AS	   minus 14	vs	     n/a
Eliminations/
 other companies	     minus 216	vs		13
 Operating result		  2,756	vs	   1,990
Life policy holder's
 portion			     1,896	vs	   1,207
 Group result			  860	vs	     783
NOTE -- Full name of Norway's largest insurance company is UNI Storebrand ASA. Seven analysts polled by Reuters forecast the company would book a first-half group result of 683 million crowns on the average.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Six months to June 30 1996
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     196.2   up 29.6 pct
    Group sales				  10,500  up 16.5 pct
NOTE - Full name of the German drugs wholesale group is Gehe AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Three months to June 30
(in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group pre-tax profit		     1,203   vs 1,145
    Group sales excluding taxes	    12,435  vs 11,991
    --domestic sales			   3,162   vs 3,239
    --foreign sales			    9,273   vs 8,752
NOTE - Full name of the German chemicals group is BASF AG.
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Six months to June 30 (in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			1,370   vs 1,196
    Group pre-tax profit		  2,323   vs 2,025
    Group sales excluding taxes	 24,267  vs 24,057
NOTE - Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted on average a 17 percent rise in pre-tax profit with estimates ranging between 2.27 billion and 2.38 billion marks. Sales were forecast to increase by three percent on average excluding gas and mineral oil taxes, with estimates ranging between 23.9 billion and 26.4 billion marks.
    Parent pre-tax profit		 1,156   vs 1,161
    Parent sales excl taxes	     10,389  vs 11,336
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525Morkels Ltd said on Thursday it planned to change the company's name to Morkels Retail Group Ltd and reduce the share premium account by up to 30.9 million rand.
The moves follow the acquisition of the operating subsidiaries of Bergers Trading Holdings Ltd.
-- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003The financial group connected to Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. (IPB) said on Thursday that it had taken control over the Czech glass fibre producer Vertex a.s. .
Spokesman for IPB investment arm Prvni Investicni, Tomas Kopriva, told Reuters that the IPB Group had placed its chosen directors on Vertex's board by controlling more than 51 percent of the voting shares present at an extraordinary shareholders meeting in the eastern Czech town of Litomysl.  
"Altogether more than 51 percent voted with us," Kopriva said.
IPB has been battling for the control of Vertex with another large Czech banking group Komercni Banka a.s. .
In June and July analysts said both groups had been amassing shares in Vertex through the secondary market, helping to push the stock's price over 7,000 crowns.
The stock was down 251 crowns from Wednesday's close at 4,783 at the Prague Stock Exchange's daily fixing, prior to the results of the general meeting.
-- Radek Narovec, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003Chemapol Group a.s., a rapidly growing Czech trading and chemicals conglomerate, on Thursday pulled the veil off its quietly amassed empire with plans to expand its shareholding base globally.
Chemapol general director Vaclav Junek told a news conference the holding company planned a minimum 600 million crown Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) issue by the year's end.
The Bank of New York would act as depositor for the issue of the receipts, which will carry voting rights for the shares to be registered in the Czech Republic.
The issue, which should be the last tranche of the company's current equity expansion plan, would be arranged by the investment bank HSBC and Chemapol's own finance unit Expandia Finance, Junek said.
Chemapol has grown from mostly oil trading company -- a business it was partially pushed out of by local refineries -- to control an estimated 20 billion crowns in equity throughout its various holdings.
Company officials said the GDR issue was planned to help raise liquidity in the hard-to-find shares, and broaden the firm's financing base.
Taking advantage of the rapid Czech privatisation programmes and a stealthy equities market, Chemapol has quietly acquired significant stakes in 67 companies. Through those companies it holds stakes in many other firms.
The company said it recently reorganised its structure, forming five sub-holdings split among chemicals and pharmaceuticals, international trade, real estate, media and communications, and chemicals distribution holdings.
"I believe that a company that has more than a half of its turnover realised abroad... should not be afraid of going to foreign markets, but it should also have contacts on the shareholders' level as well," Junek said.
The firm will also seek listing on the Prague Stock Exchange between now and the first half of the next year, finally joining other large Czech firms whose shares have been trading on the market for more than three years.
Chemapol is one of the most tightly-held large Czech groups, with primarily domestic shareholders and a small fraction of shares traded on the Czech OTC exchange RM-System.
Chemapol Group's current basic capital is 1.68 billion crowns after a series of new rights issues. Six Czech banks hold more than 50 percent of the company's stock.
Junek said after the GDR issue the equity capital should remain between 2.2 and 2.5 billion crowns in the medium term.
The company revelaed its latest acquisition on Thursday, saying it had amassed an 80 percent stake in the privatised state arms and machinery trading company Omnipol.
"We have been thinking about creating another 'leg', a machinery trading unit, for a long time," Junek said.
He added that Chemapol would coordinate with Omnipol its international activities in order to increase Omnipol's sales twice over the next two years to five or six billion crowns.
Junek said most of Omnipol's turnover were items other than arms, mainly machinery. He said Chemapol would also use Omnipol's close connections with the military aircraft-maker Aero Vodochody aiming to gain control over the firm.
The director also said that Chemapol's media unit was interested in taking an unspecified stake in the private Czech TV station Premiera. "(A result of the negotiations) will be clear at the beginning of the next year," said Junek.
The group reported consolidated net profit for the first half of this year of 290 million crowns, but is still expecting an international audit. The group posted audited net profit of 62.5 million crowns in 1995.
It had total sales of over 40 billion crowns in 1995 and 29 billion crowns in the first half of 1996.
-- Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003Czech trading and chemicals conglomerate Chemapol Group a.s. said on Thursday it was planning a minimum 600 million crown Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) issue by the end of the year.
Chemapol Director Vaclav Junek told a news conference that the Bank of New York would act as depositor for the issue of the receipts, which will carry voting rights for the shares to be registered in the Czech Republic.
The issue, which should be the last tranche of the company's equity expansion plan, would be aranged by the investment bank HSBC and Chemapol's own finance unit Expandia Finance, Junek said.
Details will be discussed at an extraordinary shareholders meeting called for September 20.
"We are, together with HSBC and Expandia Finance ... preparing an international issue which should be realised before the end of the year," Junek said. "The bottom limit, as proposed, is 600 million crowns."
Chemapol Group's current basic capital is 1.68 billion crowns. Six Czech banks hold more than 50 percent of the company's stock.
The company, which has holdings ranging from chemical production to media and arms and machinery trading units, also said it would seek listing on the Prague Stock Exchange between now and the first half of the next year.
It is one of the most tightly held large Czech groups, with primarily domestic shareholders and a small fraction of shares traded on the Czech OTC exchange RM-System.
The company declared on Thursday that it had built up an 80 percent stake in the former state arms trading company Omnipol.
The group reported consolidated sales of over 40 billion crowns in 1995 and 29 billion crowns in the first half of 1996.
Chemapol directly holds stakes in 67 companies, and through those companies it holds stakes in various other firms, Junek said.
-- Jan Lopatka, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003PaineWebber Group Inc said Thursday that it named Bruce Rubin as president and chief executive officer of its PaineWebber Properties Inc subsidiary.
Rubin replaces Lawrence Cohen, who has left the firm, the company said.
Rubin joined PaineWebber last November and served as senior vice president in real estate banking.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1610Resource Bancshares Mortgage Group Inc said on Thursday that its July 1996 mortgage loan production was $775.3 million, a 1 percent decrease from the July 1995 production of $786.6 million.
For the seven months ended July 31, 1996, mortgage loan production was $6.4 billion, a 150% increase over the same period for 1995, the company said.
The company said its locked mortgage loan pipeline was $768.0 million at July 31, 1996, compared to $957.2 million at July 31, 1995.Thyssen Steel Group, a division of Thyssen Inc N.A., said Thursday it has secured an option to purchase 40 acres of land near Richburg, S.C. for construction of a proposed steel processing and distribution center.
Thyssen Steel Group, which currently operates two steel distribution centers in the Southeast United States, said it is building the facility to expand its business in the automotive, appliance and home and farm equipment markets.
Construction is expected to begin in the fall of 1996.
Thyssen Inc provides steel, aluminum, specialty metals and plastics processing and distribution. It is a subsidiary of Thyssen AG, based in Dusseldorf, Germany.
	     Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787A group led by TCW Group said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Thursday it holds an 11.1 percent stake in Kellstrom Industries or 342,100 common shares.
The group disclosed its latest position on Kellstrom in a 13G filing.
Filings under 13G are usually made by institutions and large investors with "passive" investment objectives in a company. Unlike 13D filings, those reports do not list the latest transactions.The Inter-American Investment Corporation agreed on Thursday to lend $3 million and mobilize $15 million from commercial banks to help Argentine company PASA SA expand its petrochemical facilities.
The loans will help finance a $38 million project to increase PASA's production capacity of ammonia, urea and ethyl benzene, said the IIC, part of the Inter-American Development Bank Group.
About 20 percent of spending on the project will be invested in upgrading environmental control systems and equipment.Carbide/Graphite Group Inc said Thursday expenses due to downtime at its Seadrift needle coke facility will reduce first quarter net income by about $1 million.
The Seadrift facility, which is closed for maintenance approximately two weeks every two to three years, remained closed for an extra week as maintenance and capital projects took longer to implement.
Carbide/Graphite is a leading manufacturer of industrial graphite and calcium carbide products.
-- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) said on Thursday it would list put and call options on shares of Portland General Corp and PP&L Resources Inc on August 27.
The options on both companies will trade on the February expiration cycle, with initial expiration months of September, October, November and February. Susquehanna Investment Group will be the specialist for both.
Portland General will have initial strikes of 35, 40 and 45 and PP&L will have initial strikes of 20, 22-1/2 and 25. -Derivatives desk, 312-408-8750/E-mail: derivatives@reuters.comPeoples Heritage Financial Group Inc's acquisition of Family Bancorp has been approved by shareholders of both companies, Peoples Heritage said Thursday.
Their agreement calls for Family Bancorp shareholders to receive 1.26 shares of Peoples Heritage common stock for each share of Family common stock.
Family Bancorp shares were up 3/8 at 26-3/8 on Thursday afternoon, while Peoples Heritage was unchanged at 21-3/8.
Peoples Heritage is a $4.4 billion banking and financial services holding company. Family Bancorp is an $892 million holding company for Family Bank FSB.Greenstone Roberts Advertising said on Thursday a wholly owned subsidiary has merged The Gothard Group Inc, a public relations agency.
Terms of the transaction, which involves Greenstone Roberts Advertising/Florida, were not disclosed.
The merged public relations and marketing agency, will be renamed Gothard/Greenstone Roberts.
Ronald Greenstone, chairman of the parent company, will be the chief executive of the newly created agency.The resurrection of global aviation pioneer Pan Am, bankrupt five years ago, has been delayed by the ValuJet and TWA crashes -- but the new domestic carrier is flying test runs for a debut after Labor Day.
The new Pan American World Airways, which had aimed for a July 4th inauguration and then targeted Labor Day, should be ready for its first revenue flight a short time thereafter, Chief Executive Martin Shugrue said in a recent interview.
Shugrue said his management team had expected an expedited approval process because Pan Am's rebirth was based on "financing already in place, a solid business plan, crack management and young, wide-bodied aircraft."
But the May 11 crash of ValuJet Flight 592 in Florida's Everglades, which killed all 110 people on board, and the July 17 crash of TWA Flight 800 in the Atlantic Ocean off Long Island, killing 230, slowed federal approval by the Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration.
"Given new concerns about airline safety and terrorism, our certification process understandably took longer than expected," he said.
Shugrue said the ValuJet crash, in which investigators suspect oxygen canisters shipped on the airliner by a contractor as a possible cause, diverted attention from Pan Am's certification and focused the spotlight on "outsourcing," or the use of outside contractors.
"Like many airlines today, we plan to outsource elements of our operations. But we were prescient in that we did not and do not plan to outsource the key areas of engineering, quality assurance and maintenance record keeping," he said.
Pan Am received provisional Transportation Department certification on Tuesday and Shugrue expects FAA certification in the near future. He said the airline was about 90 percent through FAA certification with only "proving flights" remaining to demonstrate Pan Am's readiness to fly between Miami, New York and Los Angeles.
The Transportation Department approval was granted despite a petition filed by families of the victims of the Pan Am Flight 103 crash over Lockerbie, Scotland opposing Shugrue's involvement with the new Pan Am. The families have not yet decided whether to further oppose the start-up carrier.
Shugrue was vice chairman and chief operating officer of the old Pan Am and served as president of Continental Airlines and trustee for Eastern Airlines after its 1989 bankruptcy.
Once final federal approval is obtained, Pan Am will complete its financing, Shugrue said.
On Aug. 12, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved a registration statement for Pan Am's reverse merger with the Frost-Hanna Mergers Group and a shareholders meeting on the merger is set for Sept. 4.
"At that point, an additional $17 million will be released to Pan Am. Shortly after that, Pan Am will list its stock," he said. Total financing at this point is more than $30 million in cash and nearly $10 million in kind.
"We want to launch as soon after Labor Day as possible in time for the business travel season. Our marketing effort is oriented toward frequent business flyers," Shugrue said.
Shugrue said he expected one-third of Pan Am's traffic to come from deals with international airlines that will feed passengers at three gateway airports. In return, Pan Am will feed domestic passengers to the international flights.
Among airlines already signed are AeroPeru, Aero Costa Rica, AirEuropa, Air Ukraine, Royal Jordanian, Carnival and Gulfstream. Airlines which have committed but have not signed contracts include AeroMexico, Egypt Air, Cayman, Mexicana, Olympic, and Virgin Atlantic.
The new Pan Am has three A300 Airbus aircraft under contract. The planes originally were operated by Eastern Airlines, then Continental.
Most of the 14 captains who have received their new Pan Am wings are seasoned Airbus pilots, six with Pan Am and eight with Eastern. They have an average of 17,000 flying hours each.
Pan Am's failure in 1991 ended an era in air travel. The carrier was launched in 1927 with a flight from Key West, Florida, to Havana, Cuba, and began extensive international air travel in the 1930s with many early routes scouted by the legendary Charles Lindbergh. It started first-class service and in-flight movies.Times Mirror Co said Thursday that advertising revenues for its Newspaper Publishing Group for the five weeks ended August 4 rose 4.3 percent from a year earlier, to $137.5 million from $131.9 million.
For the 31 weeks of the year to date, advertising revenues rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier, to $898.8 million from $890.6 million.
Times Mirror said year-to-date results for 1996 contained six more days than the comparable 1995 results.American Phoenix Group Inc and Kushi Macrobiotics Corp said they filed a joint registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with details of their planned merger.
The companies said they expect the merger to become effective after review by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The companies said they amended the terms of the warrants whereby the exercise price of the warrants was reduced by $2.50, from $6.25 to $3.75 per share.Brooks Fiber Properties Inc said Thursday it would invest more than $60 million to build and operate three fiber optic networks in the White Plains, N.Y., San Mateo, Calif., and Springfield, Mo., areas.
The networks will operate under the name of Brooks Fiber Communications, competing with services offered by NYNEX Corp, Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell and SBC Communications Inc's Southwestern Bell.
With the three new systems, Brooks Fiber will have 29 U.S. networks in operation or under construction.
Brooks Fiber plans to be in 30 markets by the end of 1996 and at least 50 by the end of 1998.
Construction of the networks will begin immediately, with services expected to be offered in the first quarter of 1997.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Nynex Corp said on Thursday it signed a new interconnection agreement with Teleport Communications Group that expands on a similar pact, made in 1994, to connect the companies' telephone networks in New York.
The agreement aims to meet a 14-point checklist of conditions in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as required for Nynex's entry into New York's long-distance market, the company said.  
In a separate statement, Teleport said the deal would enable it to compete for about $1.5 billion in fees that long-distance telephone companies currently pay Nynex for switched access services in New York.
"TCG was the first competitive local exchange carrier to enter into an interconnection agreement with Nynex back in 1994, and now we are the first to introduce competition into the area of switched access rates paid by long distance companies," said Bob Annunziata, Teleport's chairman, president and chief executive.
Teleport said it would be able to act as a tandem or intermediate switch to terminate and originate calls between long-distance carriers and their customers. The company said a tandem switch links multiple central offices to interexchange carriers.
On June 30, 1994, Teleport and Nynex entered into the first U.S. interconnection agreement between competing local exchange carriers. Nynex said it expected the latest pact to serve as a template for negotiations with Teleport in other states in its service area.ITT Sheraton, the hotel chain owned by ITT Corp, has ruled itself out of the auction for the 17 hotels that are part of Forte's Exclusive chain, the Financial Times said.
Granada Group Plc, which acquired the hotels as part of its purchase of Forte last January, is in the process of auctioning off the luxury chain.
ITT Sheraton, which initially expressed an interest in the Exclusive hotels, said it has not made any bids, the newspaper said.
Granada chief executive Charles Allen said: "There is big interest in individual hotels, in groups of hotels and in the whole portfolio," the Financial Times reported.
The Exclusive hotels include the Hyde Park Hotel and Grosvenor House in London, the Ritz in Madrid, and the George V in Paris.
The Financial Times said Grosvenor House had been expected to fetch a bid of about 400 million stg, but it is thought to have received a top bid of about 300 million stg.
About 40 bidders remain and some are interested in acquiring Forte's 68 percent stake in the Savoy group of luxury hotels, the newspaper said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Shares in British pharmaceutical firm Zeneca Group set a record on Thursday amid renewed rumours Swiss giant Roche Holdings AG was nursing a takeover bid but the shares fell back as analysts dismissed the chatter.
"It would have to be a very attractive deal for (Zeneca's) shareholders," Kleinwort Benson analyst Steve Putman said of a possible bid. "I think it's unlikely for now. Whether the company disappears in two years time is a different story."
The worldwide drug industry has undergone dramatic consolidation over the last two years, making any medium size company a potential takeover candidate.
But a hostile bidder would have to pay as much as 20 pounds per share for Zeneca, said Steve Abbott, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Laing.
"I don't think there will be a hostile bid. Zeneca might find a partner to merge with in a few years time and the implied price (of Zeneca's shares) after a friendly merger could be around 1750p," Abbott said.
"You could argue that Zeneca is trading at the top end of fair value," added Putman. "The company should deliver at least 12 percent earnings growth for the next five years ... and that would put it in line with U.S. drug companies."
Putman figures 18 times 1997 earnings is close to fair value for Zeneca's shares. He's forecasting pretax profits of 1.130 billion stg in 1997 and 1.255 billion stg in 1998.
Shares in Zeneca, which reached an all-time intra-day peak of 1538p, gave up their early gains, but still were holding between 50p and 100p of takeover premium, analysts said.
Zeneca, Britain's third biggest drug company, declined to comment on the takeover speculation, but only two weeks ago, Zeneca's chief executive Sir David Barnes reiterated management's intention to remain independent.
"The company has a glowing future in front of it. We are facing very strong prospects for organic growth. There is no strategic imperative to go scurrying for shelter (with another firm)," he told Reuters in an interview earlier this month after reporting a 21 percent increase in first half profits.
"Zeneca would be a big chunk for anyone to bite off. Roche could do it, but it's not Roche's style to launch a hostile bid," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"At this stage in the cycle, anything other than an agreed upon bid or a merger is unlikely. It wouldn't make sense for Roche to make an expensive and presumably dilutive acquisition," he added. "But there's no smoke without fire. I think there's something going on somewhere."
Laing's Abbott added, "That's not to say Zeneca might not find a partner to merge with in two or three years. There are a lot of smaller companies that are never mentioned that could be good partners."Leisure group Servgro International said on Thursday it was considering listing subsidiary Forbes Financial Services Group.
It said that although an in principle decision had been taken on listing Forbes, in which it has a 70 percent stake, no firm decision had yet been taken on the timing or the details.
Forbes operates a number of specialist businesses which include risk management, actuarial, employee benefit and insurance companies.
The company lifted attributable profit by 31 percent to 55 million rand in the 1996 financial year and further growth was anticipated from its divisions.
"Various alternatives to achieve the listing are being considered and when the final decisions have been accepted by the boards of both Servgro and Forbes, a more detailed announcement will be made," it said.
-- Johannesburg newsroom, +27 11 482-1003The British port of Felixstowe on Thursday won a two-year contract to manage a three-berth container terminal at the Kenyan port of Mombasa.
Kenya Ports Authority Executive Chairman Robert Brenneisen and Felixstowe Port Consultants Chief Executive Officer Derrek Harrington signed the contract that is effective on September 1 and under which Felixtowe will be paid $1.1 million per year.  
Under the contract, Felixstowe will train Kenya Ports Authority staff both locally and abroad, help in the setting up of a container tracking system to be acquired from the Port of Mauritius in Port Louis and supervise a major rehabilitation programme of ships to shore cranes.
The new team will be represented in Mombasa by five staff from Felixstowe port and aims at a productivity target after 12 months of 375 crane lifts per day per crane average with a bonus if the target is exceeded. Mombasa port now does between 200 and 250 moves per day, causing a low turnaround for vessels.
Felixstowe will be responsible for maintenance of the equipment at the container terminal, an area that has been largely blamed for the inefficiency that has sometimes included purchasing of wrong spares, low staff morale and corruption.
Felixstowe was one of seven companies that tendered for the contract. Others were the Port of Singapore Authority, Portia Management Services, Port of Boston, Hamburg Port Consultancy GmbH of Germany, Saga Group of France and P&O Australia Ports.Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264