Kuwait Investment Projects Company said on Tuesday it purchased a majority stake in Saudi Arabian Dairy and Food Company.
"We bought 73 percent of SADFCO from Kuwaiti investors and a Saudi investor," an official in the Kuwaiti company said. The rest of the shares are held by Saudi citizens.
The official could not give a value for the deal but he told Reuters "the purpose of the move is to expand our operations in the Gulf."
The Kuwait firm, which has a capital of 105 million dinars ($351.2 million), is a listed investment company.
SADFCO made a net profit of 70.4 million riyals ($18.8 million) in 1995 on sales of 712.8 million riyals, the Kuwait News Agency said.
The Saudi firm has six plants in the kingdom and one in Egypt and produces tomato paste, juices, ice cream, cheeses, powdered milk and light meals, the agency added. ($1=3.75 Saudi riyals, $1=.299 Kuwaiti dinars)A rapid succession of gas discoveries in Egyptian waters off the Nile Delta are making the area one of the most promising in the world for the oil industry, a senior oil company executive said on Tuesday.
"Only now are we understanding the magnitude of the opportunity," Amoco Egypt vice president Gary Bose told Reuters in an interview. "As a whole, the basin could be world class."
Amoco, one of the leading companies in the field, has made nine discoveries in the past two years. The company and its partners have identified five trillion cubic feet in the area and that could be just the tip of the iceberg.
The oil ministry said on Tuesday that another company, Petrobel/Belayim Petroleum, had found more gas in its Port Fouad concession, north of the region's first producing gas field.
Petrobel is a joint venture between the state's Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and International Egyptian Oil Company, local subsidiary of the Italian company Agip.
Amoco and its partners have invested more than $250 million in exploration scheme in Egypt since 1992, the year it won its first Nile Delta concession, and the company plans to keep pouring money in as long as its lucky streak lasts.
"Conceivably billions of dollars could be committed if our success continues," said Bose. "Drilling has confirmed significant reserves and the potential for further finds."
"We are already committed to half a billion (dollars) to developing these fields, starting this year and up to about 2002/2003," he added.
Amoco is the largest concession holder in Egypt, with a stake in 8.4 million acres (340,000 square km). It is a partner in nine concessions in the Nile Delta area.
Amoco Egypt's exploration budget alone is $50 million this year and the same amount in 1997.
The company expects to start gas production by the end of the year from its Baltim South field, initially at a modest rate of 20 million cubic feet a day.
It will simultaneously work out development plans with its partners and the Egyptian government for the Baltim East, Temsah and then the Ras al-Barr fields, Bose said.
Amoco is still trying to define the size of the Temsah field. "It may be part of a much larger contiguous field and there's the possibility of large fields in deeper water in our and in other concessions," said Bose.
Initially the gas will go to the Egyptian market, where demand is rising fast as power stations convert to gas and the gas grid reaches new domestic and industrial consumers.
"The Egyptian market is significant but EGPC and other ministries are cooperating very effectively with the contractors to look at export markets," Bose said.
Much depends on progress in the Egyptian government's gas negotiations with Israel, the natural destination for gas exports. The plan is to build a gas pipeline across northern Sinai but Egypt and Israel have not yet agreed on the price.
"Given the potential we are also looking at liquefaction for export by tanker to Europe," said Bose.Consumer Reports magazine slapped a "Not Acceptable" label on two sport/utility vehicles Tuesday, saying the light trucks "have too great a tendency to roll over in certain situations."
The magazine said the 1995 and 1996 models of the Isuzu Trooper, made by Isuzu Motors Ltd., and the 1996 Acura SLX, also made by Isuzu but sold by Honda Motor Co. Ltd., were a danger to consumers because they "tipped up high on two wheels" in road tests.
The magazine said consumers should stop buying the models, called for an immediate recall of the approximately 35,000 cars that have been sold and said repairs or replacement models should be offered by the manufacturer.
"We don't think a vehicle that has these characteristics should do what it did when subjected to this not inconceivable situation," said Bob Knoll, director of testing for Consumer Reports' auto division, in a telephone interview
A spokesman for Isuzu defended the vehicles.
"It's very important for both consumers in general and Isuzu Trooper owners to understand very clearly that the Isuzu Trooper meets all federal safety standards and regulations," Isuzu spokesman Daniel McCue told Reuters.
But Smith Barney analyst David Garrity said the report by the influential magazine could prove damaging.
"If Consumer Reports comes out and says, 'Don't buy this product,' the sales will go down," Garrity said. "You saw what happened to the Suzuki Samurai in the '80s."
The tiny Suzuki Samurai, introduced in the mid-1980s, was also the target of a Consumer Reports article alleging that the sport/utility vehicle was prone to rollovers. The campaign eventually led to the vehicle being pulled off the market.
Garrity said the report was a blow to Honda's Acura brand, which it has worked hard to cultivate. "If I were Honda, I'd demand (of Isuzu) that the problem be fixed, and I'd be more focused on developing my own product," he said.
Consumer Reports also asked the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate the Trooper and SLX and called for more stringent government oversight of vehicles with narrow wheelbases.
Government regulations currently call for all vehicles with a wheel base of 110 inches or less to carry a warning sticker stating that "sharp turns or abrupt manoeuvres" may cause the vehicle to roll over or crash.
Both the Trooper and the SLX have wheelbases of 108.7 inches.
Both companies said they were reviewing Consumer Report's test data and would look further into the matter.
Neither McCue nor Acura spokesman Mike Spencer knew of any reports from customers of their vehicles tipping or rolling over, and neither knew of any ongoing NHTSA investigation.
"We have not had an opportunity to thoroughly review the testing methodology used. Nevertheless, Acura believes the SLX is a safe and reliable vehicle when driven in a responsible manner," Spencer told Reuters.
According to Spencer, only about 1,857 SLXs have been sold since the vehicle was introduced in November, 1995.Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.
Besides Burda, with a 26-percent direct stake in Europe Online and a further seven percent in trust, shareholders included two U.S. companies, AT&T and Meigher Communications, Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
-- Lorrayne Smith, Brussels Newsroom +32 2 287 6812, Fax +32 2 230 7710Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.  
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.The near-term fortunes of Swedish car maker AB Volvo, due to post its half-year results on Wednesday, are gloomy as the group battles with falling market share and higher costs, analysts said on Tuesday.
"The European car side is very disappointing, and Volvo has not yet achieved the volumes for the new small cars (S40/V40) that it expected, so it's going to be looking pretty grim," industry analyst Robert Barber of James Capel told Reuters.
Analysts polled by Reuters forecast a fall in Volvo's pre-tax earnings to 3.37 billion crowns for the first half of 1996 compared with 3.80 billion crowns for the corresponding period last year.
In its first quarter report, Volvo said operating income would be hit by the launch of new car and truck models as well as continuing investment in product and market development.
However, analysts rejected the idea that Volvo's falling profits are mainly due to a generation shift in the car and truck operations.
"It's not all down to difficulties in the production of their new car...they're also losing some market share," Barber said.
Barber said Volvo's forecast that its European car sales will rise in the second half of 1996 is questionable in the light of a 20 percent slump in European new car registrations.
Total European car sales rose six percent over the first seven months of the year, but Volvo saw its seven-month registrations figure fall 14.6 percent to 114,894 cars.
The Swedish manufacturer's woes were compounded by a slump of no less than 35 percent in July sales, bringing its European market share to a modest 1.5 percent.
In the United States, Volvo's Truck division has been hardest hit. Intense competition and a fall in total volumes have cut Volvo sales by 31 percent in the first half of 1996 with only 9,300 trucks sold compared with 13,500 a year ago.
Some analysts see last week's replacement of Volvo Trucks' top management in the United States -- just a week before the half-year report -- as a sign of panic.
Sales have also fared badly in South America with a drop of 50 percent to 2,350 trucks, mainly due to a decline in the Brazilian market, which accounts for 70 percent of sales in the region.
Analysts were divided on whether Volvo Trucks' shrinking market share is wholly due to the launch of a new model range in the autumn.
Bjorn Germer of Sweden's Matteus stockbrokers said he did not believe the launch of a new model was the only reason for Volvo Truck's recent misfortunes.
"Everyone knows the North American market is poor right now for Volvo, we want to see (in the half-year report) how bad the sitution is there," Germer said.
BZW analyst Philip Ayton said the eyes of the market would be firmly on the trucks division when Volvo presents its half-year report on Wednesday.
"North America has been flat for cars, terrible for trucks and there's been a change of management. I don't know if that's an indication of something a lot worse in way of earnings but clearly the American truck business is in loss and has probably worsened," Ayton said.The Slovak central bank (NBS) on Tuesday said it was reviewing the holdings of steel maker VSZ a.s. in bank IRB a.s. after the firm requested central bank approval for its acquisition of over 20 percent in the bank.
"While reviewing the VSZ request, we have reqested the Securities Registry (SCP) for an official statement on VSZ's (current) holdings in IRB," a NBS spokesman, Jan Onda, told Reuters. "The only information regarding the (current) stake we have as of today is controversial, from the press."  
Onda declined to comment on the issue further.
Following Slovak securities law, VSZ submitted a request to acquire a major stake in IRB bank to the central bank a week ago.
Slovak banking law states that any merger or acquisition involving more than 15 percent of a bank's basic capital must be approved by the central bank within three months from the day request is received.
Confusion surrounds the extent of VSZ holdings, which were published by the SCP recently as being 20.66 percent. The SCP has since said the figure was "mistaken".
Under Slovak securities law, the SCP must publish the names of any entity which acquires five percent of a firm, or when its total holdings in a company break the threshold of 10, 20, 30, 50 or 65 percent.
VSZ officials have said their firm currently holds a 14.65 percent stake in IRB, but said it is expected to rise to at least 20 percent, once pending purchase agreements with other IRB shareholders are approved by the central bank.
-- Tatiana Vacova, Bratislava Newsroom, 42-7-210-3687Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Cypress Semiconductor Corp with a buy rating.
-- At 10.9 times its 1997 earnings estimate of $1.03 a share, Rodman said it believes the stock is "cheap." It projects a 12-month target price of 18-1/2, or 18 times the 1997 estimate.
-- "On a risk/reward basis, we believe that downside risk exists to $9.50 or 16 percent, and the upside is roughly 64 percent," Rodman said in a report. "This is a high-volatility, high-risk equity."
-- Cypress shares closed August 20 at 11-3/8 (corrects stock quote).
-- Rodman said Cypress reported a book-to-bill ratio of 0.74 for the second quarter, compared with the industry three-month average of 0.91. "We expect (Cypress' book-to-bill ratio) to improve in the second half as the back-to-school and holiday seasons approach," Rodman said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Period ending June 30.
			     1996			  1995
 Shr			 C$0.10		   C$0.09
 Net			  4,987		    3,568
 Cash flow/shr	     0.48		     0.45
 Revs			43,965		   37,253
		MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.26		   C$0.16
 Net			 11,598		    6,258
 Cash flow/shr	     1.05		     0.92
 Revs			86,792		   74,045
 Avg shrs		  45,090		   40,081
		  (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Tarragon Oil and Gas Ltd.
	 -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Bombardier Inc said on Tuesday that it expects to announce by the end of its third quarter 30 to 35 more firm orders for its Canadair Regional Jet.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," Bombardier spokesman Michel Lord told Reuters.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by chief executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.  
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended October 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production up to January 31, 1998. The current order backlog for the Regional Jet is 40, and Bombardier is producing the 50-seat jet at a rate of five each month.
Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
"I would say that we are talking most about North America at this time, where the market is quite active and you have large regional airlines that can order a sizeable amount of aircraft in one order," Lord said.  
Lord said Bombardier is in active discussions with airlines on ordering the Regional Jet, but he declined to name them.
"We are having a lot of serious negotiations. If only half of them materialized, we could quite well fill up our 1997 year," Lord said.
Margaret Cornish-Kehoe, analyst at ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Beaudoin's forecast was well received as it was the first time Bombardier made a specific forecast on boosting its firm order book for the Regional Jet.
"I am very happy. There is no question this is very positive," Cornish-Kehoe said.  
Some analysts had been worried in recent weeks that Bombardier had not updated its order backlog for the Regional Jet from the 40 announced several months ago. In heavy trading last week and on Monday and Tuesday, Bombardier's Class B shares recovered much of the ground lost earlier on those concerns.
Cornish-Kehoe said that during the conference call Beaudoin also said he was expecting Bombardier to announce in the next few months that it would be boosting the order book for the de Havilland Dash-8 to the extent that production volumes would be filled for the next fiscal year, ending January 31, 1998.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Newbridge Networks Corp is on track for another strong year as analysts predict 30 percent profit growth, company officials said on Tuesday after release of record first quarter results.
"We're certainly looking forward to the coming quarters," Newbridge's head of investor relations, John Lawlor, told a conference call. "From a fundamental point of view, we're well on track here.
Newbridge reported earnings per share in the first quarter ended July 28 rose to US$0.51 per share from US$0.32 per share a year ago. The results exceeded street expectations of around US$0.49 per share.
Newbridge officials said analysts were projecting earnings of US$2.17 per share for the full year. They said they believe those numbers are consistent with the guidance they have been giving to analysts.
Newbridge reported that gross margins held steady at 64.8 percent in the first quarter compared with 64.8 percent in the fourth quarter. Cash balances, however, rose C$30 million to C$486 million.
	  -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Inco Ltd said Tuesday it has won permission to buy back up to 11.5 million of its common shares or 10 percent of the current public float.
The buy-back program is to start on Friday and end no later than August 22, 1997, the company said.
Inco will not need to borrow to finance the buy-back, it said in a release.
The program will be funded partly from internal cash surpluses and partly from the proceeds of possible future asset sales.  
The main reason for the repurchase program is to help offset earnings dilution that stems from the C$4.3-billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc, Inco said.
The long-awaited move will be welcomed by Inco shareholders, some of whom expressed concern about dilution when Inco won a takeover battle last spring to buy Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
The takeover is expected formally to close on Wednesday.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996			 1995
 Shr			 C$O.25		   C$0.20
 Net			 90,300		   69,500
 Revs		   1,915,200		1,476,600
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.47		   C$0.36
 Net			167,100		   133,00
 Revs		   3,519,000		2,833,000
 Avg shrs		 335,500		  332,100
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Investors with "exploration fever" have latched onto Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd, hoping drill results expected this week will line their pockets with paper profits.
"There certainly are rumors that the results they've got from their Brazilian exploration are going to be positive," said Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at ScotiaMcLeod.
"It's all part of the current phenomenon -- exploration fever."
Black Swan was the most active stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday after heavy trading on Monday and last Friday. The stock was down C$0.05 to C$1.45 on volume of 2.6 million shares Tuesday.
But the flurry of speculative interest in the stock is not linked to anything concrete, company spokesman Richard Simpson said from the company's headquarters in Vancouver.
Drilling results from Black Swan's 50 percent-owned gold project in Brazil likely will released until later this week, he said, adding that the results are very preliminary.
"I know there'll be gold in the hole," said Simpson. "As to what grade it will be, whether it will be above or below the expectations of the market, I simply don't know. They're always looking for pretty jazzy stuff."
The rumor in the market is that the results will be good, and investors, especially institutional investors under pressure to show robust returns, are placing their bets, analysts said.
Mutual funds that burnished their performances on high returns from investments in such high-flying explorations stocks as Bre-X Resources Ltd and Diamond Fields Resources are quick to pile into junior mining shares with any hint of potential.
Although many previously Hot junior mining stocks cooled off quickly in June and July, investors seem to have forgotten their earlier rough ride, said Barry Cooper, a mining analyst at Wood Gundy.
"The 'once burned twice shy' saying doesn't work in junior gold stocks," he noted.
The attraction with Black Swan is a limited downside, since the stock has been trading around the C$1.50 mark, added ScotiaMcLeod's Ketchen.
"Whereas the upside potential, if they come up with something, can be rather impressive."
Black Swan shares its Cata Preta gold project in the Brazilian State of Minas Gerais with Sul America Mineracao Ltda, a Brazilian company.
Black Swan is in the midst of negotiating a takeover of its partner to gain a 100 percent interest in the Cata Preta and acquire Sul America's other Brazilian properties.
The drill results expected this week are from hole 23, the first of a 30-hole series expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Black Swan plans to drill a total of 150 holes to determine how much gold lies beneath a surface deposit already explored.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996			1995
 Shr			 C$0.06		   C$0.02
 Net			  2,221			677
 Cash flow/shr	     0.24		     0.14
 Revs			23,309		    9,822
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.09		   C$0.05
 Net			  3,436		    1,420
 Cash flow/shr	     0.40		     0.27
 Revs			37,356		   19,085
 Avg shrs		  39,115		   31,134
	     (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Barrington Petroleum Ltd. Second quarter 1996 results are the first to fully reflect the acquisition of Sherritt Energy Corp, which closed on May 27. Results for the period also include a one-time charge to earnings of C$570,000 in respect of an imputed interest charge.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Netscape Communications Corp's lead antitrust lawyer has written to the U.S. Department of Justice to urge that immediate action be taken against Microsoft Corp for what Netscape called "far-reaching anti-competitive behavior."
The letter, dated August 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday, is a further escalation of a battle of words between the two companies that began earlier this month as the rivals prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
Gary Reback, an outside attorney representing Netscape, also suggested in the letter that the issue be turned back to the Federal Trade Commission for further investigation.  
The eight-page letter accuses Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers (ISPs), systems integrators and large corporations providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 screen."
The Netscape counsel said these inducements were made on the condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser."
A browser enables PC users to access the World Wide Web.  
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and Microsoft are introducing new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Netscape, which pioneered browser technology and surged on to the public stock market with a stellar initial public offering in August 1995, holds the lead with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide browser market.
But Microsoft, whose Windows systems dominate the personal computer market with about a 90 percent share, has moved quickly to gain an estimated 10 percent browser share.  
It said Monday that more than one million users have downloaded its latest Internet Explorer version in its first week of availability.  
The software, known as Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its own Navigator software.
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Netscape and Microsoft are already well along the way to developing the next version of their browser software.  
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with the Redmond, Wash.-based software company, said the alleged practices went far beyond those that had been addressed in a consent decree agreed by Microsoft and the Justice Department two years ago.
"Microsoft's behavior is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.
Reback said in an interview a number of companies had "started coming out of the trees" with compliants since a war of words began between Netscape and Microsoft two weeks ago.  
Reback urged the Department of Justice to investigate what Netscape believes was illegal conduct by Microsoft, saying the department could do so swiftly. He said many small Internet companies "now face the threat of elimination from the market by reason of Microsoft's illegal conduct."
The attorney also suggested the department's antitrust division return the matter to the Federal Trade Commission, which he said has taken a recent interest in the subject.
"In any event, we are requesting immediate attention," he said. "Time is of the essence. We know that the antitrust division has an open file with respect to Microsoft."
-- sam.perry@reuters.com, Palo Alto Bureau, +1 415 846 5400Poland's ombudsman on Tuesday challenged in court the government's handling of this year's tenders in which two international consortia gained licences to develop modern GSM cellular telephone networks.
Ombudsman Tadeusz Zielinski asked the Supreme Administrative Court to annul those terms of the licences which force the new cellular operators to use transmission facilities of state-owned telecommunications firm TPSA, he said in a statement.
The obligation violates the telecommunications and anti-trust laws, the ombudsman's spokesman Stanislaw Wilenski told Reuters.
"The licence prohibits using transmission lines other than those belonging to TPSA..., while there are at least three other enterprises which have transmission infrastructure," he said. "Thus TPSA's monopolist position was supported."
Apart from TPSA, transmission services can also be provided by the state-owned Polish Power Grid and the State Railways.
GSM licences were awarded in February to Polish and foreign consortia named  Polska Telefonia Komorkowa (PTC) and Polkomtel SA.
PTC groups, among other firms, Polish trading company Elektrim, US West of the United States and DeTeMobil, part of Deutsche Telekom.
Polkomtel comprises Polish firms including the copper combine KGHM and Petrochemia Plocka refinery as well as two major Western partners -- Tele Denmark and Air Touch.
Both companies plan to launch operations this year in some larger cities. They will compete with the current sole cellular operator Centertel SA, which uses an older analogue system.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Savings Bank, one of the leading banks in Estonia, on Tuesday said it has started quoting shares in the leading commercial banks in fellow Baltic states of Latvia and Lithuania.
Savings Bank dealer Charlie Viikberg said the bank was now quoting shares of leading Latvian bank Unibanka and the shares and global depositary receipts of key Lithuanian commercial bank Vilnius Bank.
"They are interesting for Estonian investors also," Viikberg told Reuters, but noted that it was difficult to get hold of Vilnius Bank stock in Lithuania as it was not very liquid.
Vilnius Bank recently became the first Soviet state to launch GDRs and they are quoted in Luxembourg.
News agency Baltic News Service (BNS) said Estonian bank Hansapank already quotes Unibanka and Vilnius Bank.
Viikberg said that his bank did $50,000 of business in Vilnius Bank's GDR today but nothing in Unibanka.
-- Riga Newsroom +371 7 22 66 93Serbia's Sartid Steel Works has raised production to pre-sanctions levels, producing over 200,000 tonnes of iron and steel in July, the Iron and Steel Industry Association said on Tuesday.
"Production in July almost reached the optimum use of capacity as it did in 1989 when it was 85 percent," Savo Markovic of the Association told Reuters.
In the first three months this year production was insignificant as the company prepared to resume production in the wake of war-time sanctions, he said.
In July Sartid, based in the east-Serbian town of Smederevo, produced 63,000 tonnes of iron, 74,000 tonnes of steel and 80,000 tonnes of finished products.
Sartid fired its furnace in March, and from April to the end of July produced a total of 228,000 tonnes of iron, 222,000 tonnes of steel and 222,000 tonnes of finished products.
"This production is quite good considering Sartid stopped producing iron and steel at the beginning of 1993," said Markovic. "It is even above expectations."
Sartid received about $122 million in credits in the past six months to kick-start the plant -- mostly from Swiss banks.
The money stabilised production at an average of 75 percent capacity with only one of four blast furnaces operating. Under the embargo plant ran at a mere 15 percent of its capacity.
Sartid's chief executive Dusan Matkovic last week said the plant's exports rose to $1 million a day after almost four years of idleness under the international trade embargo.
"Sartid must export and pay back its debts," Markovic said. "It cannot sell all its production on the domestic market."
The domestic market can absorb only about 15 percent of the plant's output as the republic's metal industry -- the main consumer of Sartid's products -- is still sluggish.
As much as 95 percent of Sartid's raw materials are imported -- crippling the factory during sanctions.
Sartid, according to Matkovic, plans to start its second blast furnace by the end of 1997. Its annual production then would rise to two million tonnes of steel. -- Gordana Kukic, Belgrade Newsroom, +381 11 222 4254Slovenian state-owned brown coal mine Zagorje said on Tuesday it had stopped production and started closing down all operations due to soaring costs which have left the mine reeling from losses.
"We are closing in line with the government's plan, according to which the mine will be closed by the year 1999," chief executive Matej Pozun told Reuters.
Zagorje is one of three brown coal mines that were scheduled for closure this year due to high production costs.
"Our coal production was too expensive and simply not competitive anymore. Apart from that, Slovenia, like other countries, is switching to ecologically friendlier energy sources like gas and oil," Pozun said.
He said the mine stopped being profitable over a decade ago and has regularly received state subsidies over the past 18 months.
At its peak in the early 1960s, the mine employed over 2,400 and produced up to 660,000 tonnes of coal per annum.
But by 1995, production slumped to 70,000 tonnes while the workforce totalled just 418. -- Marja Novak, Ljubljana newsroom, 386-61-125-8439RAO Vysokoskorostnye Magistrali (VSM or High-Speed Railways) will make a second 240 billion rouble one-year government-guaranteed bond issue in September, a company official said on Tuesday.
VSM plans to send the prospectus for approval to the finance ministry and central bank in the first week of September, deputy finance director Andrei Nikandrov told Reuters.
Approval is likely to take one week, he said.
The company is raising funds to build a high-speed Moscow-St Petersburg rail link.
VSM issued 120 billion roubles of government-backed bonds on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange at the beginning of the year. The securities are effectively the same as Russian OFZ interest-bearing government bonds.
OFZ bonds pay quarterly interest linked to the yield of current issues of GKO discount treasury bills.
The proceeds of the first issue went to start work on a railway terminus in St Petersburg, clearing the construction site, Nikandrov said.
Russia recently approved a $200 million British loan for constructing the terminus by U.K. construction company Taylor Woodraw Plc.
--Julie Tolkacheva, Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520Banks in the Uzbek capital Tashkent said on Tuesday the government had ordered them to stop paying out cash in the national sum currency for the rest of this month, but official sources denied such an order existed.
"They gave us an order to stop paying out cash until the beginning of next month," a spokeswoman for Uzpromstroibank, told Reuters by telephone.
She said accounts held in sum had been frozen temporarily but she had no information as to whether foreign exchange accounts were affected.
A source at another bank, Pakhta Bank, also confirmed the order but could give no further details.
Late on Monday, Interfax news agency quoted a senior finance ministry official as saying cash operations had been suspended to allow the authorities to pay wages to agricultural workers. There is a shortage of cash banknotes in Uzbekistan.
A spokesman at the Central Bank of Uzbekistan denied such an order existed. "We know nothing about this order," he said.
--Chris Bird, Almaty newsroom, +7 3272 509410Mexican cement giant Cementos Mexicanos grabbed a bigger stake in Colombia's market Tuesday with the purchase of Industrias e Inversiones Samper in a deal worth more than $275 million, trading sources said.
Carlos Caballero, president of the Bogota stock exchange, said 275 million shares in the troubled Colombian cement maker, founded in 1909 and the country's oldest,  were sold at auction late Tuesday at $1.08 per share.
The buyer, ostensibly, was Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA. But Caballero said the winning bid had been placed on behalf of Cemex.  
"It was Cemex," Caballero told Reuters in a telephone interview.
A spokesman at Cementos Diamante, another Colombian cement maker that Cemex purchased in May, declined immediate comment on the deal, saying only that a statement would be released later Tuesday.
But Caballero said Cemex's purchase of 275 million shares in Samper gave it a 93.6 percent stake in the company. He added that Cemex had agreed to pay for 55 percent of the shares directly and the remainder with a foreign credit.  
Until Tuesday's sale, a 75 percent stake in Samper had been held by Colombian financier Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo.
Samper, which fell on economic hard times in the late 1970s, is currently protected from its creditors under Colombia's bankruptcy laws.
It reported 163.6 billion pesos in assets at the end of the first quarter, however, and a net profit of 1.6 billion pesos.
With Cemex's purchase, and earlier grab for Diamante, trading sources said the Mexican cement giant is now set to become a dominant player in the Colombian cement market, which has enormous potential for growth given the country's crumbling infrastructure and an expected surge in oil revenues next year.
The current slowdown in Colombia's construction industry is also widely expected to end next year.
-- Javier Mozzo, Bogota newsroom 571 6110473.The Mexican Rice Council is firmly against the lifting of a four-year ban on Asian rice imports, the director of the private sector grouping said Tuesday.
"We radically oppose the lifting of the embargo," Antonio Lajud told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The council represents the country's 13,000 rice growers and the 23 major businesses that control 98 percent of all Mexican rice sales.
The Mexican government is allegedly planning soon to lift the ban on Asian rice that was implemented in 1992.  
"We have not even been invited to the negotiations (to lift the ban)," Lajud said.
Talks are allegedly on-going between the Agriculture Ministry and representatives from Asian governments, including Thailand, he said.
"We are not interested in buying inferior quality rice from Thailand, or Vietnam, or wherever...if the ban is lifted we just will not buy the rice," he said.
Lajud said the council intended to mobilise the industry if the ban were eased and protest such a move. "We are just not going to allow them to lift the ban," he said.  
There will be important protests by the industry," he added.
"The ban was implemented in the first place because of the serious infestations Asian imports caused in our own rice fields...we have managed to turn that around and have our sights set on self-sufficiency," he added.
Mexico slapped import ban on Asian rice back in 1992 on phytosanitary grounds, stopping imports from Thailand, Vietnam, China and Indonesia. The government claimed it found some Asian shipments were contaminated with bacteria and insects.  
Mexico bought about 40,000 of medium grade 10-15 percent Thai white rice a year before the 1992 ban. Vietnam also sold Mexico rice in the early 1990s, largely by heavily undercutting U.S. rice prices.
Mexico consumes around 400,000 tonnes of white rice, and currently produces about half that amount and imports the other 50 percent from the United States.
"This council was founded in 1994 to bring order to the market that followed the infected imports and we have done that...now they want to return to chaos again," Lajud said, adding that Agriculture Ministry officials were refusing to answer his phone calls.
Agriculture Ministry spokesmen were not immediately available for comment.
Lajud said he had heard that the ban could be lifted as soon as August 26. Such moves are published in the government's Official Gazette, and rarely given much media publicity beforehand.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.Australian resources giant, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, said on Tuesday it was discussing with several companies the sale of its majority-owned Syama gold mine in the West African nation of Mali.
"There have been some discussions about the sale of (the mine) and they are continuing," BHP spokesman Tony Wells told Reuters.
Wells declined to comment on the value or likely price of the mine or when it was likely to conclude the sale.
Wells said South African miner Randgold & Exploration Co Ltd had expressed an interest in Syama.  
"It is one of the companies we have been holding discussions with," he said.
Syama, currently Mali's only commercial mine, has annual production of 180,000 ounces a year.
BHP shares closed on Tuesday down four cents to A$17.50.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435Qantas Airways Ltd has begun a regular air cargo service into China with the opening of a new route to Shanghai, the airline's regional general manager freight, Peter Barry, told Reuters.
Up to now Qantas had been hamstrung from carrying air cargo to and from the capital Beijing because of weight restrictions on the aircraft used, he said in a telephone interview from Singapore.
The new service is using an extended range Boeing 767 allowing six to eight tonnes of air cargo plus passengers to be carried between Sydney, Shanghai and Beijing.
The first flight to Shanghai left Sydney on Tuesday August 20, Barry said.
"We're pretty excited about because whilst it's only two flights a week, we see it as the first step of our growth in China. Business prospects are pretty healthy.
"Like everywhere else in Asia at the moment we think it's on a downward turn to a degree compared to what it has been but we think there are still pretty good opportunities," he added.
"Up to now we have carried basically zilch. Now we see an opportunity to let rip and we are quite looking forward to that. I would imagine after about a month we will be geared up and see some pretty good revenue coming out of it," Barry added.
As part of the airline's bigger presence in China, Qantas has appointed a new country manager. Shanghai-born Francis Lou has more than 20 years experience with the airline, Qantas said. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Indonesian tobacco tycoon Putera Sampoerna sharply raised on Tuesday his offer for Singapore's Transmarco Ltd as its share price surged, a move which dealers said was likely to make the bid successful.
Standard Chartered Merchant Bank Asia said on Tuesday that Miel Investment Corp, wholly owned by Sampoerna, had raised its takeover offer for Transmarco to Singapore $8.55 per share from S$6.50 bid at the weekend.
Transmarco, a trading and telecommunications firm, had suspended its share trading in mid-afternoon on Tuesday pending the announcement.
"It looks like Sampoerna is serious. I think he will be able to get more than 51 percent. Sukamto is likely to sell most of his stake to him as he might not be able to unload that much in the market," one head of institutional sales at a local brokerage told Reuters.
Indonesian-born Sukamto Sia garnered 55 percent of the company with a bid of S$6.50 per share in late 1994. He later stepped down as chairman and director and has since reduced his stake to 36.2 percent.
Sampoerna, who controls PT Hanjaya Mandala, Indonesia's largest clove cigarette maker, accumulated 8.8 million shares for a 32.1 percent stake in Transmarco by August 17. The move, made through his British Virgin Island-incorporated investment vehicle Miel Investment Corp, triggered a mandatory takeover offer.
Dealers said Sukamto was expected to bail out of Transmarco.
Sukamto is the second-largest shareholder of troubled Amcol Holdings, which is being rescued by Indonesian conglomerate Sinar Mas.
"I think Sukamto is looking to get out, now that his credibility is dented by what's happened at Amcol and banks could be squeezing him," said one dealer.
Dealers said Malaysian-owned investment company Stratford Holdings could also sell its stake to Sampoerna. Stratford has reduced its stake to 13.4 percent from 22.4 percent in recent weeks, selling 2.4 million shares for between S$4.11 and S$9.72.
Stratford bought the shares at S$13.50 each earlier in the year. Dealers said they believed some of Stratford's shares were bought by Sampoerna.
"On paper, the Malaysians could be making a loss but they could be compensated in other ways -- like future deals with Sampoerna," said a trader.
Minority shareholders, however, were more likely to sell their shares in the market as Transmarco's share price has surged above S$8.55. It hit a high of S$10 on Tuesday and was at S$9.80 when trading was suspended.
Before Sampoerna made his initial weekend offer, Transmarco shares had last traded in the open market at S$6.75.
"I think the price could keep rising and may even hit S$12 tomorrow (Wednesday)" said a dealer. Transmarco is expected to resume trading on Wednesday.
Dealers said they expected the share price to stay firmly above S$9.00, at least for the period of the offer.
But one dealer raised the concern of how long the share price could stay at such stratospheric levels.
"The key question is, who is doing the buying in the market? Funds will not be there until they know what Sampoerna intends to do with the company. At such high prices, it is not exactly cheap for punters," said the head of sales at the local brokerage.
Dealers said Sampoerna could be aiming to use Transmarco as a listing vehicle to spearhead his business in Asia.China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646Business executives from Indonesia and Netherlands arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday to evaluate Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL), a Privatisation Commission consultant said.
Zubair Ejaz told Reuters that Setiawan Djody, chairman of Setdco group of Indonesia, and J.B. Volbeda, president of PTT Telecom Netherlands, would make an assessment of PTCL, which is being privatised.
He said the executives would meet officials of the government, the Privatisation Commission and PTCL during their three-day stay.
Pakistan, which wants to sell a 26 percent stake and transfer management control of PTCL to a strategic investor, has not yet announced a date for the sale.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
"It's a good set of figures...some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said. ($1=.6466 Pound)The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Thistle Hotels strong underlying profit growth and trading performance was welcomed as the ideal springboard for its forthcoming London flotation and share offer plans, said analysts on Tuesday.
Thistle reported a near-doubling of pretax and pre-exceptional profits to 24.1 million stg. Alex Kyriakidis, analyst at consultant Arthur Andersen said the results, which showed strong growth in London and lesser growth in other regions, would "keep the market interested."  
He added that the 10 percent cut in the valuation for the hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg was also to be welcomed, despite resulting in a 87.8 million stg exceptional charge against profits and a 116.8 million deduction in the revaluation reserve.
"Thistle is using this opportunity (the float) to clean up its house and it's given the right signal to investors," said Kyriakidis.
Thistle chief executive Robert Peel had told Reuters earlier that the downward revision was in line with the rest of the sector and mainly hit hotels outside London.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's Thistle Hotels, the group behind such luxury names as London's Grosvenor and Royal Horseguards hotels, on Tuesday began the countdown to a London flotation with plans for a share offer to kick off in September.
Market watchers say a float could value the group at between one and 1.5 billion pounds ($1.5 to $2.3 billion).
Thistle plans to raise 250 million pounds in new cash through the offer. Around 100 to 150 million pounds would be used to reduce debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding room capacity, chief executive Robert Peel said.
"We would focus the money on London -- the region where we get the best returns," he told Reuters.
Thistle also announced half-year pretax pre-exceptional profits of 24.1 million pounds, a near doubling of its earnings in 1995.
But profits were hit after including a one-off charge of 87.8 million to partly account for a 10 percent cut in the valuation of its hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg.
Thistle is Britain's second biggest hotel chain, with 100 hotels, most of which are in the London area.
Its main shareholder, Brierley Investments of New Zealand, will cut its controlling 70 percent stake to less than 50 percent under the float plans, Peel said.
The other major investor, an investment arm of the Singapore government, will reduce its 30 percent stake by a similar ratio.
Small retail investors will be a key priority under sell-off plans and will be offered special benefits and discounts by the company.
"We see the retail market as two things. First, it's healthy for a company to have lots of small shareholders. Second, in a service industry we can treat them as our customer base and promote to them," he added.
Thistle said an indicative price range would be announced at the time of the share offer, which has no fixed date so far.
Some market analysts said Thistle could face some difficulty in a market which has seen a wave of flotations this year.
Conglomerate Lonrho Plc said last week that it planned to float its Princess and Metropole chains within two months with a price tag of around 700 million pounds.
Alex Kyriakidis, hotels analyst for consultants Arthur Anderson, has said that Thistle would have to price its float aggressively for a market which is already heavily exposed to an industry enjoying boom sales this year.
But Peel disagreed that demand from investors might have been dulled by earlier floats.
He also denied that a 204.6 million pound asset writedown of property values in its interim results would deter interest, despite representing a 10 percent cut in portfolio values.
The revaluation of the hotel portfolio resulted in the 87.8 million charge against profits and 116.8 million was also deducted from its revaluation reserve. ($1=.6471 Pound)P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society on Tuesday reported half year profits of 649 million pounds ($1 billion) and said its 10 billiion pound stock market flotation was on track for June 1997.
However, the society said its share of Britain's reviving housing market slipped as it took a 7.2 percent share of net mortage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview these levels were below its normal market share of around 20 percent because it had shied away from re-mortgaging which accounted for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.
The size of the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but are lured by another lenders -- reflects the low level of transactions from home movers, said Marsh.
One analyst said the slip reflected the society's pursuit of profits as it prepared for a stock market flotation and a distinction from those societies which did not intend to leave the mutually-owned sector.
Building societies are owned by their savers and borrowers who will share in the proceeds of the flotations of those societies which intend to become banks next year.
However, societies which intend to remain owned by their members say they can undercut the mortgage rates offered by their soon-to-be-banking rivals as they do not have to satisify shareholders' demands for profits.
Marsh said Halifax members -- savers and borrowers -- would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the new transfer document early next year.
They will vote on the flotation in February 1997 which means the flotation would probably take place in June, he added.
Most of the ten largest societies are seeking flotations to become banks because they say this gives them the ability to diversify from their traditional home-loan provider roots.
Halifax is already diversifing. It is in the process of merging with insurance group Clerical Medical and merged last year with rival building society Leeds Permanent.
This, along with the flotation, means further acquisitions are unlikely this year. "We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.
He said that so far this year net mortgage lending is eight billion pounds and forecasts a figure of 16 billion pounds by year-end. But that is dwarfed by the 40 billion pounds of net lending in the boom year of 1988, said Marsh.
"Transactions are still at very low levels...but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh, adding the housing market was showing signs of making a sustainable recovery which would avoid the previous boom/bust cycle.
The pick-up in the housing market has been fuelled by a low inflation, low interest environment, Halifax said, pointing to the lowest mortgage rates in Britain for 30 years.
But a further cut in the Bank of England's official 5.75 percent base rate might not feed through to mortgages.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh.
Halifax's benchmark standard variable mortgage rate is 6.99 percent, higher then the the largest remaining building society Nationwide which has a 6.49 percent rate.
Halifax said its 649 million pounds of half year profits represents a rise of six percent rise over the six month period to January 31. It is changing its year end from January 31 to December 31. ($1=.6466 Pound)Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.Power-hungry Turkey, facing energy shortages later this year, has pinned hopes on natural gas from Iran and development of its first nuclear power station on the southern coast for its long-term needs.
Recai Kutan, energy minister of the Islamist coalition government that struck a multi-billion dollar gas supply deal with Iran last week, said power generation from nuclear energy was inevitable despite environmentalist concerns.
"Nuclear power is a must for Turkey," he told a meeting of businessmen in the western city of Izmit.
"We cannot build big hydroenergy power plants every year. We must make use of our nuclear energy potential," he said in remarks carried by Anatolian news agency.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan signed the $23-billion landmark deal with Iran to get gas via a pipeline to be built from the Iranian city of Tabriz to Ankara, beginning in 1999. Turkey is to buy a total of 190 billion cubic metres by 2022.
The deal sparked controvery as it came shortly after the United States, Turkey's NATO ally, issued a law to punish companies investing more than $40 million in energy projects in Iran and Libya.
The U.S. later said it had yet to see details of the agreement to see whether Turkey was liable under the new legislation -- designed, says Washington, to punish states that back terrorism.
Ankara said a last minute change was made in the agreement not to breach the U.S. ban by deleting reference to Turkey's involvement in the building of the pipeline's section through Iranian territory.
Turkey, which uses gas chiefly for domestic use, consumes nearly nine billion cubic metres of gas annually with imports mainly from Russia. The Iranian deal will supply an initial three billion cubic metres from 1999.
Turkey is expected to produce 93.1 billion kiloWatt-hours (kWh) of power this year, up eight percent from last year, against a projected consumption of 97.5 billion kWh.
Officials said the short-term supply shortfall would be met by imports from neighbouring countries.
Ugur Dogan, energy ministry under secretary, said Turkey would soon begin electricity purchases from Iran through an existing grid with its eastern neighbour.
"We will soon buy an initial 25 megaWatts (MW) of power from Iran through existing lines. Later in the year we will raise it to 100 MW," he told Reuters. The line's capacity will be raised to 720 MW, he said.
He said Turkey was also negotiating with Georgia and Bulgaria for power imports from end-1996 or early 1997.
Kutan said Turkey was seeking to revive a 30-year-old plan to build a nuclear power plant at Akkuyu on the Mediterranean coast. Previous governments shelved the plan after protests from residents, local politicians and environmental activists.
Officials said the government would later invite an international tender to build the plant, originally designed to have a power capacity of 1,000 MW to 1,400-MW and produce up to 10 billion kWh annually -- nearly 10 percent of Turkey's needs. Its total cost is estimated at $3 to $5 billion.
Turkey had been self-sufficient in electricity for years but lack of investments blamed on a stagnant build-operate-transfer (BOT) model, led to shortages.
The obstacles were aggravated by a constitutional court ruling in early 1990s that all government deals to be carried out by consortia involving foreign companies would have to be inspected by the Council of State.
The decision has delayed at least seven power projects which would produce about 1,000 MW and were worth around $2.6 billion, according to official figures.
The government later devised an alternate model to promote production via coal-fired plants, which supplied 36 percent of national output of 86.3 billion kWh in 1995.
Earlier this year the previous government allowed private industrial companies to produce their own power and sell any surplus to the state distributor TEDAS.
Such production accounted for 10 percent of the total national power output in 1995.
Undersecretary Dogan said the government planned to re-open four coal-fired power plants in western Turkey shut down in 1994 after environmentalists won court cases.
"We are having desulphurisation units built at chimneys to minimise air pollution at those four plants. We will open them as soon as possible," he said.Rogers Communications Inc said on Tuesday it inked a deal with with MDC Communications Corp under which MDC will buy Rogers' wholly held cheque printing unit Davis + Henderson.
Davis + Henderson, the largest producer of cheques in Canada, was acquired as part of the 1994 takeover of Maclean Hunter. The deal is due to close by September 30, and is conditional upon signing a definitive agreement.  
Davis + Henderson is expected to generate revenues in excess of C$80 million in fiscal 1996, MDC said in a separate statement. The unit employs more than 750 people at seven plants in Canada and one in the United States.
The company's U.S. unit, the Check Gallery Inc, operates in the direct-to-consumer cheque business in the United States serving 900,000 customers.
MDC said the revenue from this business is growing at a rate of 50 percent per year. MDC will fund the purchase by bank facilities.
Financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.03		   C$0.01
 Net			  1,400			400
 Cash flow/shr	     0.26		     0.29
 Revs			24,600		   28,600
			   6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.05		   C$0.04
 Net			  2,700		    1,800
 Cash flow/shr	     0.50		     0.57
 Revs			50,000		   50,000
 Avg shrs		  58,000		   51,000
		 (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Biomira Inc and Neoprobe Corp said on Tuesday they signed a deal under which Biomira granted Neoprobe an exclusive worldwide license to use Biomira's radiolabeled murine monoclonal antibody MAb-170 in Neoprobe's RIGS technology for surgical detection of breast cancer.
Neoprobe plans to conduct a Phase I clinical trial involving up to 45 women who are undergoing breast conserving surgery, the company said.
Roughly 73,000 cancer patients have this type of surgery every year in the U.S. and that number is expected to rise to more than 87,000 a year in the next 10 years.  
In Neoprobe's RIGS approach, the Biomira antibody is injected into the patient before surgery.
It then attaches to the cancerous tissue and the surgeon uses Neoprobe's hand-held gamma-detecting probe to identify where the antibody has accumulated in diseased tissue which may not have been recognizable by touch or sight.
Neoprobe has received an upfront fee and will get milestone payments and royalties upon commercialization of a RIGS product using the Biomira molecule. Neoprobe has the option to license another Biomira molecule, MAb-174.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996			  1995
 Shr			 C$0.12		   C$0.04
 Net			  2,457			681
 Cash flow/shr	     0.40		     0.30
 Revs			17,436		   13,656
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.23		   C$0.10
 Net			  4,346		    1,666
 Cash flow/shr	     0.79		     0.62
 Revs			33,817		   26,658
 Avg shrs		  18,759		   17,517
		  (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Harrowston Inc said on Tuesday its 65 percent unit Marsulex Inc signed definitive deals to buy the assets of Coulton Chemical Co of Ohio and the shares of Sulconam Inc of Montreal.
The total cost of the two deals will be roughly C$128 million cash, the company said.
The acquisitions are expected to close next month following final due diligence and appropriate consents. The Sulconam acquisition is also contingent on the waived rights of first refusal by existing shareholders.
North York, Ontario-based Marsulex is an environmental services firm which provides removal services for useable sulphur by-products for the mining, oil refining and chemical industries. These by-products are converted into useable industrial chemicals including sulphuric acid, liquid sulphur dioxide and elemental sulphur and then sold.
Coulton operates plants in Toledo and Cairo, Ohio, and provides sulphuric acid regeneration services to oil refineries and chemical companies in the Midwestern U.S. market. Sulconam removes impurities from the process streams of two oil refineries in Montreal, Quebec.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Full House Resorts Inc and Dreamport Inc said Tuesday their Midway Slots and Racebook gaming and entertainment facility was approved by the Delaware State Lottery.
Dreamport is the gaming and entertainment unit of GTECH Corp.
The 35,000-square-foot facility, developed by a Full House and Dreamport joint venture, has 500 gaming devices including slot machines and a 150-seat simulcast parlor and racebook with individual television screens for players.
The Full House/Dreamport joint venture financed and developed the project, and will act as manager of the gaming facility under a 15-year management contract.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Newcor Inc said Tuesday it has a good outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter that began August 1, since customer requirements for the parts produced by the components and assemblies segment are generally strong during this period.
It added that its special machines segment assembly and ship schedules are forecast to be much higher compared with the third quarter, and start-up and integration costs will not be as high as they were in the third quarter.
Earlier, Newcor reported third quarter earnings of $0.13 a share, compared with earnings from continuing operations of $0.05 a year ago.
Newcor added that there is a "good level" of interest in its Machine Tool and Eonic divisions. As previously announced, the divisions are being sold.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Medtronic Inc said Tuesday it acquired the assets of the Sensors Business Unit of Drager Medical Electronics of Best, the Netherlands.
Financial terms were not disclosed.
The Drager sensors unit makes invasive pressure transducers, consisting of a silicon chip sensor and connector. The sensor and connector are incorporated into a catheter-shaped housing that can be maneuvered or implanted in the brain to assess cerebrospinal fluid accumulation, Medtronic said.  
Through its sensors unit, Drager Medical offers two families of catheter-based pressure-monitoring products, both designed to be compatible with modern external patient monitoring equipment, Medtronic said.
Microtransducer catheters for neurological, cardiovascular and urodynamic applications are grouped into one product family. The second features the Ventconrol MTC designed for placement in the ventricles of the brain, enabling continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid while simultaneously monitoring intracranal pressure.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Co said Tuesday it expects to improve its financial performance in fiscal 1997 and in the future.
Earlier, Knape & Vogt, which makes shelving and home furnishing and storage items, reported a loss of $0.78 a share after $0.48 in charges for the fourth quarter ended June 30. A year ago, its fourth quarter income was $0.37 a share.
Sales for the quarter were $40.3 million, up from $40.1 million a year ago.
For fiscal 1996, it earned $0.01 a share after charges, compared with year-ago income of $1.40 a share. Fiscal year sales were $163.0 million, down from $168.2 million.
"Although we are disappointed with sales and earnings in fiscal 1996, our recent actions position Knape & Vogt for improved performance in fiscal 1997 and beyond," Allan Perry, president, said in a statement. "We are taking aggressive action to revitalize sales and enhance shareholder value."
The company said one of the early benefits from its restructuring is expected to be an improvement in company-wide plant utilization. It reiterated that annual savings from the restructuring are expected to be about $0.40 a share, spread across fiscal 1997 and 1998.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Snap-on Inc said Tuesday its Snap-on Tools Co unit agreed with Penske Auto Centers Inc to provide car care and maintenance equipment for more than 800 Penske automotive service centers.
The centers are located in Kmart Corp store locations across the country.
"Our goal is to deliver a complete solution to the vehicle service industry," Branko Beronja, senior vice president, said in a statement. "This agreement demonstrates our ability to offer a full range of diagnostic, under-car and under-hood service equipment, as well as training, service and product support to the automotive service business owner."
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Dayton Hudson Corp, which reported higher second quarter earnings, said it epects to see continued improvement in the performance of its department store division.
"Our second quarter results reflect exceptional profit performance at Target and a significant turnaround in profitability at Mervyn's," Bob Ulrich, chairman, said in a statement. "We remain on track with the repositioning of our Department Store Division and continue to expect their improved financial performance in the second half."  
Earlier, Dayton reported second quarter fully diluted earnings of $0.42 a share, up from $0.11 a year ago.
Dayton said its Target division's operating profit for the quarter rose 66 percent to $240 million, compared with $144 million a year ago. Target's total revenues rose 16 percent and comparable store revenues gained seven percent.
Its Mervyn's division had a rise in operating profit in the second quarter to $54 million from $3 million, although  sales dropped three percent and comparable-store sales fell five percent.
The department store division had a drop in second quarter operating profit to $10 million from $24 million. Total revenues fell two percent from a year ago and comparable-store revenues declined four percent.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787(In thousands except per share data)
     Three Months Ended June 30,	    Year Ended June 30,
		  1996     1995  % Change   1996    1995  % Change
 Net sales   $69,988 $62,514    12%   $291,766 $269,306     8%
Cost of sales
		  53,219  52,944     1%    229,262  208,176    10%
Gross margin
		  16,769   9,570    75%     62,504   61,130     2%
Restructuring
   Charge	   --	--     --	5,212	 --     --
Operating income (loss)
		   3,486  (1,051)  432%	4,601   15,641  (71%)
Net Income
   (loss)	1,473 (1,252)   218%	  337    8,221  (96%)
Earnings (loss)
    per share   0.09  (0.07)   229%	 0.02     0.49  (96%)
Average shares outstanding
		  16,820  16,820     --     16,820   16,820     --
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787The Austrian unit of Swedish furniture retailer IKEA said on Tuesday it planned to open two new outlets in Austria within the next two to three years.
Company spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters IKEA Austria was looking to build new stores in northern Vienna and the western city of Innsbruck to complement the country's existing three IKEA stores.
"Plans for the buildings themselves do not yet exist but we have concrete plans to build them," spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters.
No details of the planned investment in the new stores were immediately available.
Losert said the Innsbruck site had already been purchased, but the company was still looking for an appropriate site in northern Vienna. She said the Innsbruck sales floor would cover an area of 9,000 to 10,000 square metres. No details of the future Vienna outlet were available.
-- Vienna newsroom +43 1 531 12 257Metals firm Metaleurop said on Tuesday it planned to restart lead production at its Nordenham smelter in Germany in early September.
"We are aiming for a restart in early September. That is what is planned and there have been no changes so far," a company spokeswoman told Reuters.
Metaleurop, a subsidiary of Preussag, announced in late July it was closing down the smelter to make technical modifications after some months of experience with its new bath technology.
The smelter started producing lead in March.  
Metaleurop had said output at the new 90,000 tonne plant was to be limited to 70 percent of capacity during the first 12 months of operation.
The spokeswoman said the production target may be adjusted after the restart.
Because of recurring technical problems Nordenham had been producing less lead than initially expected, she said.
Asked if this meant Nordenham would not meet its initial output target for the first 12 months of operation, she said, "We should be below our target but at this stage we cannot say by how much."
Deliveries to customers have not been affected by the closure as Metaleurop was able to secure lead mainly from its Noyelle-Godault plant in France.
Because of a traditional slowdown in orders during the summer, the company did not need to buy extra lead on an already tight physical market, she said.
-- Dominique Vidalon, Paris newsroom +331 4221 5432Phoenix airport officials said they foresee an air cargo boom from new non-stop European services from Britain and Germany.
Phoenix Airport marketing director Ann Hastings said cargo has risen 39 percent so far this year and she expected still higher annual growth.
Cargo volumes at Phoenix, the 17th busiest passenger airport in the world, grew 11.3 percent to 286,666 US tons in 1995.
Hastings told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "As we work in Europe to gain more carriers, cargo will grow."
British Airways now flies daily from Gatwick and LTU will start a weekly Duesseldorf to Phoenix in November.
"Cargo has been a small area of our business because freight was trucked to Los Angeles to the freighters for Europe and Asia," Hastings said.
"We know from business clients they want to ship more from Arizona because they would save money and time," she added.
"British Airways has been surprised at the amount of cargo they can get for Phoenix. They have more committed than they can handle."
Companies in nearby Sun Valley include Honeywell Inc, Intel Corp, Motorola Inc and McDonnell Douglas Corp, she noted. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM NV as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish construction and real estate group Skanska is forecast to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns for the first half of 1996, a Reuters poll of eight analysts found on Tuesday.
This compared to a profit after financial items of 1.72 billion crowns in the same period a year ago.
Forecasts for the six months to June 30, 1996, varied between 2.80 billion crowns and 3.33 billion with a median of 3.10 billion crowns.
For the full year, analysts forecast an average profit after financial items of 4.25 billion crowns.
Forecasts varied between 4.00 billion and 4.50 billion crowns.
Skanska is due to release its half year profit on August 22.
  (MLN SKR)		 AVG	  MEDIAN	 RANGE
 H1 Profit after fin    3,099	3,199     2,800- 3,326
 1996 profit after fin  4,249	4,288     4,000- 4,500
 H1 sales		  22,180	22,500   19,700-24,900
 1996 sales		44,280	43,000   37,700-50,000
-- Anette Moller, Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1008Swedish mining company Trelleborg AB reports for the six months to June 30, 1996 compared with a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		    657 vs    954
 Sales					10,618 vs 11,100
 Operating profit after deprec	   511 vs    721
 Operating costs			   9,719 vs  9,993
 Operating profit before depreciation  899 vs  1,107
 Depreciation				  388 vs    386
 Operating profit after deprec	   511 vs    721
 Net interest income		 CREDIT 89 vs    270 CHARGE
 Currency difference		 CREDIT 15 vs     13 CHARGE
 Share in other company results	   52 vs    515
 Tax					     182 vs    309
 Minorities					0 vs	9
 Net profit				    475 vs    636
 Shr (crowns)				 4.05 vs   5.40
NOTE -- Trelleborg AB is a Swedish mining and minerals group.
A Reuters poll found analysts expected the company to report a profit after financial items and costs of 700 million crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Portuguese state-controlled cement group Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal has potential to invest up to 250 billion escudos ($1.6 billion) in foreign acquisitions up to the year 2001, a company source said on Tuesday.
The source said the investment plan depended on Cimpor's ability to maintain cash flow and not to allow debts to reach 30 percent of total assets. Cimpor has negligible debt now.
"We will only make the investment if we find the right opportunities," the source told Reuters.
"We would be interested in making an investment if the expected profit exceeded the capital costs. We are looking for interesting opportunities for investment."
Cimpor would seek possible investments after the scheduled privatisation of a 45 percent stake in the company expected in October, the source said.
Cimpor was considering Spain, South America, and northern and southern Africa as potential areas to acquire cement manufacturers, the source added.
This month Cimpor bought Moroccan cement firm Asment Temara for 11.8 billion escudos ($77 million).
It also owns a subsidiary in Spain, Corporacion Noroeste, and in Mozambique, Empresa de Cimentos de Mocambique.
Cimpor shares stood at 3,370 escudos, up five, in volume of 10,750 shares on Lisbon bourse in early afternoon trade.
-- David Brough, Lisbon newsroom +351-1-3538254Heavylift Volgadnepr Airlines said it will be operating three Antonov 124 charter flights between Chateauroux and Ulyanovsk early next month carrying vehicles taking part in the Paris-Moscow-Peking Master rally.
"Three flights are scheduled for September 7 and 8, with approximately 40 jeep-type vehicles, 10 trucks and between 20 and 30 motorcycles being shipped," a Heavylift official told Reuters.
The AN-124 aircraft can carry up to 150 tonnes and the Chateauroux-Ulyanovsk charters will also transport helicopters to be used in the television coverage of the rally and broadcasting equipment, the official added.
The rally will start at the Trocadero -- near the Eiffel Tower in Paris -- where the vehicles and motorcyles in competition will undergo techincal check-ups before travelling down to Chateauroux to take part in a prologue event at the airport, a Chateauroux airport authority official said.
"The rally's organisers were impressed by the uncongested facilities at the airport coupled with the length of the runway, a package which enabled us to beat off competition from the Paris airports, Lyon and Marseille," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year earlier.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		 1,567  vs  1,395
 Pct of invoiced sales		   12.7  vs   11.9
 Invoiced sales			  12,374  vs 11,687
 New orders				12,982  vs 12,622
 Operating profit after deprec	1,491  vs  1,294
 Pct of invoiced sales		   12.0  vs   11.1
 Operating costs			 10,500  vs 10,062
 Depreciation				 383  vs    331
 Interest net				  68  vs     77
 Dividends received			   7  vs	1
 Foreign exchange difference   CREDIT   1  vs     20  CHARGE
 Taxes					  531  vs    491
 Minorities				    13  vs     15
 Net profit				 1,023  vs    889
 Earnings per shr (crowns)	     5.57  vs   4.84
NOTE -- Atlas Copco AB is a Swedish engineering group that makes compressors and industrial tools,
A Reuters poll of 13 analysts found the average forecast for Atlas Copco's half year profit after financial items was 1.52 billion crowns. The company's sales were forecast at 12.50 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday that London would be the main target in the hotelier's expansion plans after it floats on the London stock market and launches its share offer in September.
The float is expected to value the company at between one billion and 1.5 billion stg. Of the 250 million stg in new cash raised under the offer, Thistle's chief executive Robert Peel told Reuters that around 100-150 million stg would be used to pay down debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding its room capacity.Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday its stock market flotation was on track for June 1997 and its members would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the transfer document in early 1997.
The push towards conversion to bank status, plus the integration of rival society Leeds Permanent and insurance group Clerical Medical, means further acquisitions would be unlikely this year, spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview.
"We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.  
He said the society always looked at merger opportunities but would not pursue any acquisitions if they risked delaying its flotation, first announced in November 1994.
The owner-members of the mutually-owned society -- its savers and borrowers -- will vote on the flotation plans in February 1997, Marsh said, with the flotation probably in June, provided it gets the go-ahead from its regulator.
Halifax's flotation is expected to bring the biggest single boost to share ownership in Britain. With an estimated size of 10 billion stg, it dwarfs the planned flotations of the other societies intending to seek bank status.  
Marsh said the integration costs of Clerical Medical were not likely to be great and that further job cuts as a result of the merger with Leeds Permanent were not expected.
It has already said it expects to cut 200 jobs in its head office by the end of 1997 as a result of the Leeds merger.
The merger with Clerical Medical is expected to be completed by the end of the year, Halifax said.
Halifax said its financial services arm achieved 23 million stg of profits in the first half of the year, compared with seven million stg in the six months to January 1996.  
The society said it had changed its financial year end from January 31 to December 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charge for merger and integration costs.
Overall, it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.
It said its retail banking arm took 8.0 percent of new current accounts, compared with a market share of existing stock of three percent.
Growth in personal loans was 22 percent in the six months to June and the amount borrowed on credit cards grew 10 percent.  
It set up a new Halifax General Insurance unit in April 1996 to manage its general lines personal insurance and said it was gradually bringing in-house the responsibility for product design, premium collection and claims handling.
To develop a capital structure for its conversion to bank status, Halifax said it had issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
It said total assets rose to over 100 billion stg and its gross capital ratio rose from 7.99 percent to 8.64 percent.
Halifax said it had cut its cost/income ratio to 41.4 percent from 43.0 percent and said it took a 54 million stg charge for provisions, slightly up on the previous six months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday another quarter point cut in official interests would not necessarily lead to further falls in Britain's historically low mortgage rates.
Halifax, which plans a stock market flotation next year, took a 7.2 percent share of net mortgage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
This level is below its normal market share of around 20 percent, Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview, because the society has shied away from re-mortgaging which accounts for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.  
Pricing in the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but shift their lender -- deterred the Halifax from competing actively, the society said.
"Given our size and position we can stand back," said Marsh.
Halifax's much-watched house price index for the 12 months to July showed a 5.3 percent rise.
"All the signs are that the recovery is sustainable," said Marsh. "We could well see houes price inflation in the 5.0 to 7.0 percent bracket for the next year or so," he added.
Such a rise would avoid a boom and bust scenario and at last see house prices rise above the rate of inflation, said Marsh.  
Mortgage rates, at their lowest for 30 years, may not fall further even if the Bank of England cuts its official 5.75 percent official base rate.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh, although he said Halifax would look to see how its competitors reacted to such a cut.
"(Mortgage rates) are at or around their trough," said Marsh.
The size of the re-mortgage market is accounted for the by the low level of transactions -- home movers -- in the market.  
"Transactions are still at very low levels....but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh.
So far this year net lending is eight billion stg, which the Halifax forecasts will reach 16 billion stg by year end. That compares with 40 billion stg in the boom year of 1988, he said.
He said Halifax's profits in the first half of the year would have been 64 million stg higher if the society had not written off its mortgage incentives -- discounted rates and cashbacks -- straight away.
Halifax said it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.  
Before exceptionals that was a six percent rise compared with the six month period to January 31.
Halifax said it had changed its year end from January 31 to Dcember 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charged for merger and integration costs.
The society said it was increasingly confident about the state of the housing market. "With a more disciplined marketing environment we see more profitable organic growth in mortgage lending emerging in the second half of this year and into the next," the society said.
-- Jill Treanor, London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113Mobil Corp's Australian subsidiary said on Tuesday that Gippsland crude oil was still being piped to Shell Australia Ltd despite earlier statements by Mobil that it was taking proportionally more Gippsland crude to entirely offset Shell's normal intake.
"It's not a total offset. They're (Shell) still getting some (Gippsland crude)," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
Gippsland crude oil is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.  
Shell Australia has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Mobil earlier said its Altona refinery in Melbourne had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude intake with imports. Mobil has sold a crude oil cargo that it ordered two months ago.
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1435Mobil Australia Ltd said on Tuesday its 108,000 barrels-per-day Altona refinery in Melbourne was expected to be back at around 80 percent of normal output by Wednesday morning, following the repair of its cracking unit.
"The cracker is being tested at moment and we're expecting on spec product to be produced tomorrow ... morning," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
The refinery's cracker extracts gas, gasoline, diesel and LPG products after the crude distillation proces.  
The refinery, which is currently running at 60 percent, would remain at sub-peak output until next week while repairs were carried out to one of its three distillation units, the Mobil spokeswoman said.
She said the refinery had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.
"At the moment we're running on 100 percent Gippsland crude and that's because Shell aren't taking any crude from Gippsland so we need to take their share. We've in fact just sold a cargo we had on the way," she said.  
The spokeswoman said the cargo had been ordered for the refinery two months ago but she was unable to elaborate on the cargo's size or to whom it was sold.
She also could not comment on current total daily crude oil input levels.
Gippsland crude accounts for about half of the refinery's normal crude supplies.
It is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.  
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery, which has been at partial production since August 13, took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude oil at normal operating levels.
Shell Australia Ltd has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435Carter Holt Harvey Ltd, one of the rival bidders for state-owned Forestry Corp of New Zealand, said on Tuesday it was simply outpriced by the winning Fletcher Challenge-led consortium.
"I think the essential thing was that they put the best price on the table," CHH Forests Chief Executive Devon McLean told Reuters. "It was a price that we were not in a position to reach," he said.
"We saw it as a good opportunity...at the right price. We bid as good a price as we could and we were not successful."  
McLean said CHH already had a large forest resource that was continuing to increase in terms of woodflow.
"It will increase 50 percent over the next 10 years so it is not a question of us being short of fibre. We have plenty of plans in place for further wood processing from our own estate."
CHH, just over half owned by International Paper, was in a joint venture with Maori group Te Ama Ltd and Malaysia's Jaya Tiasa for FCNZ, which has 188,000 hectares of plantation forests in the central North Island.  
The government earlier announced a sale to a consortium comprising Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments Ltd and China's Citic, for NZ$2.026 billion.
-- Wellington Newsroom (64-4-4734746)New Zealand's government is to sell state-owned Forestry Corporation to a consortium of Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments and China's Citic, a government source said on Tuesday.
He told Reuters the Fletcher consortium plans to invest NZ$16 million in Forestry Corp's Waipa sawmill and has plans for a NZ$200 million particleboard factory to be built by the year 2000.Qantas Airways Ltd is expected to fly slightly above its prospectus net profit forecast of A$237 million for the year to June 30, 1996 but analysts said 1996/97 results could hit some turbulence over current wage talks.
Australian aviation analysts expect Qantas to report an annual net profit before abnormals of between A$237 million and A$249 million. The airline is expected to pay a second half dividend of 13 cents, making a total of 16.5 for the year.  
Analysts said the Qantas result would be helped by lower costs, on which the airline has focussed since it became a publicly-owned company in July 1995.
"We have got an official figure of A$237 (million), but I really expect it to be around the A$240 to A$245 million mark and that would be largely driven by the cash flow being steered towards paying off debt," a Melbourne analyst said.
ANZ McCaughan aviation analyst Yasmin Allen expects Qantas to report a profit of A$237 million for 1995/96. "I would not be surprised to see it come in above that," Allen told Reuters.  
Another Melbourne-based aviation analyst forecast Qantas to report a net profit right on the prospectus forecast of A$237 million while one Sydney-based analyst forecast a net profit before abnormals of A$239.1 million for the year.
"They have done well on the cost reduction side and they have seen the market grow, but they have lost market share, so add all that up and I think they will come out about square," the second Melbourne-based analyst said.
Last week the Department of Transport released data showing that Qantas, including wholly-owned Australia Asia Airlines, had a 37.9 percent international market share in April.  
Qantas, which is 25 percent owned by British Airways Plc, forecast in its 1995 prospectus that its international market share would be 41.1 percent for the June 30, 1996 year.
Qantas, known as the 'flying Kangaroo' estimated a one percentage point variation from this forecast would affect the bottom line profit by A$48 million.
However, analysts said they were more interested in comments about Qantas' outlook for the 1996/97 year, as costs may increase, arising from current wage talks, renewed domestic competition, and continued pressure on international routes.  
Qantas has offered an eight percent pay rise over two years over two years on condition that productivity reforms are implemented, but unions want productivity gains to be rewarded by a wage rise over and above the eight percent offer.
Qantas shares took a dive to a record low of A$1.87 on July 24 as the market got the jitters that management had conceded to union pressure and award a wage rise above eight percent.
The unions initially made a claim for two consecutive annual wage rises of 10 percent but last month, Qantas chief executive James Strong said this claim would wipe out the airline's profit if successful.  
Qantas shares have now moved back to familiar territory and on Tuesday were trading at A$2.17.
Analysts expect Qantas to report a net profit before abnormals of between A$260 million to A$273 million for 1996/97, but some analysts said they would be ready to mark down these numbers if there were some very negative comments from Qantas.
They said the planned purchase by Air New Zealand Ltd of a 50 percent stake in local airline Ansett Airlines Ltd may pressure the 1996/97 results  
"People have known what 96 will look like but 97 is going to be a different story for a whole mix of things and there should also be some impact from a combined Ansett/Air New Zealand when that starts to happen later this year," the Sydney analyst said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373 1800A century after live ostriches were first brought to Australia for the millinery trade, a new industry is tempting the Asian market with ostrich sashimi, ostrich stir fry and ostrich steak.
Like camels and water buffalo, Australia's ostriches began to run wild after demand for their services -- in this case, for feathers for hats --- was killed by changing fashion.
Now they have been rounded up, new birds have been imported and a breeding programme has increased the number of Australian ostriches to about 60,000 from 45,000 a year ago.
First exports of Australian ostrich meat have begun to Singapore, Japan and Hong Kong in 500 kg (1,100-lb) shipments.
Exports also have also been made to the United States and strong inquiries are being received from Europe, says Chas Dale, general manager of Australian Ostrich Co Ltd (AOC).
Dale says he can only guess at how big ostrich meat exports might become. But in aiming for a niche in Asia's food trade, prospects for ostrich farming are bigger than ever.
"Its potential is on a giant scale," Gary Allen, chairman of AOC, told Reuters.
The AOC started regularly processing ostriches only in July and the company believes it will take a couple of years before the Australian industry completes the transition from breeding to commercial operation.
The commercial stage will be reached when the industry has about 30,000 breeding hens, compared with less than 10,000 breeders at present, Dale said.
About 4,000 Australians now have some form of investment in the industry, the membership of the Australian Ostrich Association has grown to about 2,700 members, and an Ostrich Odyssey '96 convention in Adelaide featured what AOC describes as "a far sighted, ambitious agribusiness plan".
The main focus is on ostrich meat, but the industry is also aiming to provide premium leathers, oils and by-products.
Where is ostrich meat's market edge when AOC sells at A$35.00 a kg, more than double the price of a prime beef steak?
And why would Asia go for Australian ostrich meat rather than the South African original?
Dale admits ostrich meat is not cheap, describing it as near the top of the restaurant price scale.
But there is increasing recognition of health value, with ostrich meat at only 0.5 percent fat, he said.
Furthermore, tenderness made ostrich sashimi "absolutely beautiful," while Singapore was delighted with a stir fry ostrich combination, he said.
So far Australian ostrich meat exports are mainly for traditional Western steak-type meals. But AOC is working with Asian tasters to find out what this huge market wants.
AOC's target is exports of about 100 tonnes of ostrich meat over the next 12 months.
Australian ostrich producers believe they will establish leadership in Asia by focusing on the region and meeting its unique culinary tastes, not simply supplying bulk meat.
The native South African ostrich is very different from Australia's big bird, the emu, which is mainly farmed for its body oil.
Ostrich meat is not as gamey as emu, ostriches have two toes, emus three, and ostriches are about three times bigger.El Al Israel Airlines is considering using a Boeing 747 aircraft for its weekly Tel Aviv to Hong Kong service, providing another seven tonnes of cargo capacity and a non-stop service, the carrier's general manager for China, Hong Kong and east Asia, Abraham Roter said.
He was speaking to Reuters in a telephone interview from Beijing.
An informal air services agreement currently exists between the two countries which allows the Israeli flag carrier to offer a once weekly service on Thursdays from Hong Kong to Tel Aviv with a refuelling stop in Tashkent.
Roter said the airline is now considering a Boeing 747 -- instead of the current Boeing 767 -- which would increase cargo capacity from 10 to 17 tonnes and be non-stop from Tel Aviv. But he said the return flight would have a stop, possibly in Bombay.
"The route is getting better and we could utilise better capacity for the passenger. Negotiations towards a bilateral agreement have been going on for almost a year between the two governments. They have still to be signed but that is a formality," Roter said.
"We would like to intensify our operation in the Far East because we believe there is tremendous potential here. And with the continuation of the Middle East peace process we can see a big market for tourism in the eastern Mediterranean for people from this part of the world," he added.
El Al now fly to six Asian destinations: Hong Kong, Beijing, South Korea, Bangkok, Delhi and Bombay.
A Hong Kong government spokeswoman confirmed that talks had taken place between Israel and Hong Kong to review the current informal arrangement. She said a formal air services agreement is not needed for El Al flights to continue after next year's Hong Kong handover to China.
"We have informal agreements with many other countries of which Israel is one and it has been reviewed. There may have been changes to the confidential memorandum of understanding between the countries but even if it had been changed it would not be disclosed," she said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS) unveiled ambitious plans on Tuesday to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subsidiary of telecoms giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.  
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system would also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through its gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system, noting that the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.  
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations that will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said the company is considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.The contract backlog of Philippine construction giant DMCI Holdings Inc rose sharply to 8.1 billion pesos as of August this year due to the flurry of construction activity in the country, an official of the company said on Tuesday.
"Our contract orders has risen to 8.1 billion pesos as of August from only 2.2 billion pesos as of June 1995," the official told Reuters in a phone interview.  
DMCI's share price jumped 75 centavos to close at 17.75 pesos on Tuesday on talk of the robust growth in the firm's contract backlog.
"The sharp increase in our contract orders indicates the level of construction activity in the country and DMCI's increased construction capability," the DMCI official said.
The increase in DMCI's construction capability could be gauged from the rise in its manpower to 16,000 from 9,000 last year, she said.
--Manila newsroom (632) 841-89-36, fax 817-62-67Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.Chip producer Austria Mikro Systeme International AG said on Tuesday it expects parent sales and earnings in the second half of 1996 to be on a par with those posted in the first six months.
Earlier, AMS reported parent first-half sales of 710.4 million schillings versus 814 million, pre-tax of 128.35 million versus 102.15 million and net profit of 102.33 million versus 102.15 million.  
"Sales in the second half will not stand out because of any extreme hikes," chief executive Horst Gebert told Reuters. -- Vienna newsroom, +431 531 12274Dutch financial services group Internationale Nederlanden Groep NV is expected to announce a leap of up to 32 percent in net profit on Thursday, August 22, with banking outstripping insurance in earnings growth.
Analysts polled by Reuters estimate net profits in the first half of calendar 1996 at between 1.46 billion and 1.56 billion guilders, compared with 1.18 billion a year earlier.
They said the growth rate was largely the result of the 42 percent surge in first quarter profits, when banking activities in emerging markets such as Latin America bounced back from losses in the same period of 1995.
"In the second quarter they faced a far more difficult comparison base, particularly on the banking side," said Heinie Hakker at BZW Nederland.
Analysts see profits before tax from banking as high as 1.09 billion guilders, a gain of 46 percent from the first half of 1995, with most of this increase coming in the first quarter.
Interim pre-tax insurance profits are forecast to have risen by between 11 and 17 percent to between 1.10 billion and 1.16 billion.
Analysts were divided however over whether Barings, the British merchant bank bought for 1.7 billion guilders in March 1995, would be profitable after interest charges.
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said ING's banking activities benefitted from many of the same factors as rival ABN AMRO's, such as buoyant financial markets.
But he added: "The insurance activities are having a dampening effect on the result."
Pluijgers said he would be interested in whether ING made more provisions for future costs, including losses on aircraft leasing, after making no such allowances in the first quarter.
Bart van der Feen de Lille of IRIS Research said ING's trading and commission income would have grown strongly but not as fast as at ABN AMRO, which has a greater relative exposure to equities markets and less to bond markets than ING.
ABN AMRO last week posted a 36 percent jump in interim net profit at 1.7 billion guilders, helped by booming share markets which boosted trading income and fees from share offerings.
CS First Boston analyst Kishore Banger said ING's first quarter profits were exceptional because of banking but he saw insurance providing a solid increase in the second quarter.
He also expected double digit growth in insurance profits in the first six months of 1996.
"Where's there's scope for a surprise (in the half year), it's on the banking side," Banger added.
-- Garry West, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS
20/08 Van Ommeren	H1	   43.3   38.8-48	 38.7
20/08 Pakhoed	    H1	   58.8     55-63	 62.0
21/08 Nedlloyd	   Q2	  -10.8    -20- 0	 19.0
22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas. -- Amsterdam newsroom, +31 20 504 5000 (FAX 31-20-504-5040)French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux has agreed to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds ($619 million) on replacement trains over the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds ($194.3 million) in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds ($4.3 million).
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds ($55.3 million) per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds ($187.2 million).
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds ($38.7 million) on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks.Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
A joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said. These will then be incorporated into a final filing to respective governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, he said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.Industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average UK domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46.36) per year in 1997, rising to to over 50 pounds in 2001.  
These final proposals follow a draft released in May when the watchdog said TransCo, which is British Gas biggest moneymaker, should cut charges between by 20 to 28 percent in the year from April 1997, and by five percent thereafter.
"If the proposals are accepted (by British Gas), TransCo's customers will benefit from substantial price cuts from April 1997 and continuing real price reductions in the following years," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode said.
British Gas said in an initial reaction to the long-awaited decision that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject the proposed regime. "We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
Shares in British Gas initially rose on the news and were indicated 10 pence higher at 208 before the official start of trading on the London Stock Exchange.Privately-owned Qatar Airways will take delivery of its fourth Boeing 727 next week, chief executive Sheikh Hamad bin Ali bin Jabr al-Thani said on Wednesday.
"The used aircraft was purchased last month. It is coming next week," Sheikh Hamad told Reuters, adding that it was bought from General Electric Co's leasing subsidiary General Electric Capital Aviation (GECAS).
He did not give the cost of the new plane.
The 727 will bring the two-year-old carrier's fleet to six -- four 727s and two 747s. Sheikh Hamad said the airline had in June sold its third 747 to a private buyer.
The airline has long-term plans to increase its fleet.
"We are planning to take the narrow-bodies up to six and also add a freighter. We are actively in the market discussing with various leasing companies," he said.
"It continues our plan to make Doha one of the important air locations in the Gulf," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Netscape Communications Corp.'s lead antitrust lawyer has written the Justice Department urging it to take immediate action against Microsoft Corp. for what he characterised as "far-reaching, anti-competitive behaviour."
The letter demanding "immediate attention" was dated Aug. 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday. It represents a further escalation of a battle of words between the rival companies that began earlier this month as they prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
Gary Reback, the outside attorney representing Netscape, also suggested in the letter to Deputy Assistant Attorney General Joel Klein that the issue be turned over to the Federal Trade Commission for further investigation.
The eight-page letter accused Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers, large corporations and others providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 (opening) screen."
Reback says these inducements were made on condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser." A browser enables computer users to access the Internet's World Wide Web.
The letter said Netscape had "uncovered numerous additional steps that Microsoft has taken for the purpose of eliminating competition in the Internet software markets," including predatory pricing and bundling of products.
Microsoft spokeswoman Claire Lematta dismissed the letter, saying it "appears to be full of wild and unsubstantiated statements."
"It looks to us like a marketing document masquerading as a legal document," she said. "Netscape must be feeling the competitive pressure."
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and the Redmond, Wash.-based software giant introduce new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape, an early leader in browser technology, holds the lead in market share with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide market.
But Microsoft, whose Windows systems are found in about 90 percent of personal computers, has moved quickly to gain an estimated 10 percent of the browser market and says more than 1 million people have downloaded its latest browser ,version.
That software, Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its browser, Navigator 3.0
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Microsoft and Netscape are also already well along the way to developing the next versions of their browsers.
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with Microsoft, said the alleged practices went far beyond those which had been addressed in a consent decree reached by Microsoft and the Justice Department just two years ago.
"Microsoft's behaviour is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.A potentially cost-saving dairy cattle feed invention unveiled on Wednesday strengthened Finnish Raision Tehtaat Oy's image as an innovative food group and was immediately reflected in its share price, analysts said.
"The company's image has strengthened significantly within one year," Finnish Aktia Bank analyst Ritva Ojala told Reuters, referring to the company's new invention and Benecol, a cholesterol-reducing margarine Raisio launched early this year.
That has helped its stock rise by more than 400 percent in one year.
Raisio said it had developed and patented a feed mix formula containing an amino acid called histidine which could cut the cost of feeding dairy cattle by reducing the need for protein. It said it could be commercially viable in the next few years.
It said six grammes of histidine had the same effect on milk output as one kilogramme of protein feed.
"Raisio has done successful reseach in paper chemicals, but Benecol and the cattle feed finding show that the company really makes efforts to seek innovations in high volume products," Ojala said.
But analysts said it was too early to estimate the commercial prospects of the cattle feed finding.
"It remains to be seen how important it is, but we are positive towards the continued development in their R&D," said Kleinwort Benson analyst Michael Finney in London.
"We believe it is too early to upgrade our forecasts on the back of this, but we are still positive towards the share," he added.
An analyst at a Finnish bank said the dairy cattle feed discovery was still at a very preliminary stage compared to the Benecol margarine, and it may take many years until Raisio gets any commercial benefit from it.
"However, there may be potential, and every new invention in the animal feeds industry is important, since margins there have recently been under pressure due to higher raw material costs," she said, requesting anonymity.
The share market welcomed the new finding and Raisio shares rose sharply in lively trade after the announcement.
Raisio jumped to 322.00 markka before dipping back to 315,00, up 17.00, in late Helsinki dealings after heavy volumes.
---Helsinki Newsroom +358-0-680 50 248Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo posted a slightly higher-than-expected first half profit on Wednesday, prompting a sigh of relief from financial markets.
Analysts had expressed concern about Volvo's performance in the first six months as the group battled against falling market share, higher costs and a production generation shift.
But a first half pre-tax profit of 3.86 billion swedish crowns ($584.1 million) on sales of 78.06 billion crowns against 5.33 billion crowns a year ago on 85.13 billion crowns sales appeased market fears, coming in a touch higher than the forecast 3.37 billion crowns.
Although sales were largely unchanged, analysts were relieved to see the car unit back in the black in the second quarter after two red quarters and the weaker performance of the truck unit, foreshadowed last week, not as bad as feared.
"We are feeling rather good about the rest of the year," analyst Bjorn Germer from Matteus brokerage told Reuters.
Volvo's share price edged up about four crowns after the report was released but the relief quickly wore off and Volvo closed 1.5 crowns lower at 136.5 crowns.
Analysts said the first half report reflected the new slimline Volvo, which has been actively divesting since 1994 to concentrate on its core automotive businesses, spinning off units ranging from seafood to stockbroking.
"The mix of the business has changed and we are almost into a phase now where we will just look at core operations," Salomon Bros analyst John Lawson told Reuters.
"The second quarter has given a reminder of what will be a fairly constant pattern over the next couple of years."
Volvo chief executive officer Soren Gyll said the company's divestment plan was virtually complete and first half earnings benefitted from net interest income of 633 million crowns and gains of 453 million crowns on the sale of shares.
But he said in the company report that the group's structural and industrial transformation was continuing.
"The group's two largest operating sectors, Volvo Cars and Volvo Trucks, are in a period of aggressive change," Gyll said.
From the half-year results, analysts said Volvo Car seemed to be over the worst, posting an operating profit of 187 million crowns on sales of 39.83 billion crowns after two consecutive quarters of losses.
The company's new medium-sized S40/V40 models appeared to be winning market acceptance with problems of long delivery times improving.
Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson told Reuters that the unit expected to improve profitability this autumn as the S40/V40 series replaces the older 400-series.
However Volvo's truck division was stalling.
Gyll said Volvo Truck delivered a total of 33,240 medium-heavy and heavy trucks in the first six months of 1996, a 13 percent drop from 1995.
Last week Volvo announced a major cost-cutting drive and a change of top management at its truck division in the U.S., saying performance this year had been unsatisfactory and the unit had suffered substantial - but undisclosed - losses.
"A restructuring programme is under way but a significant loss is also anticipated in the second half," Gyll said.
Volvo Truck's managing director Karl-Erling Trogen told Reuters that losses in North America would continue.
Analysts were forecasting Volvo to post a full year pre-tax profit of between 5.4-6.8 billion crowns.
($1=6.608 Swedish Crown)Swedish insurer Trygg-Hansa on Wednesday reported a sharp jump in earnings for the first half of the year, saying a thorough reorganisation of the group had started to pay off.
Trygg-Hansa's pre-tax profit increased to 1.52 billion crowns ($230.5 million), a 27 percent improvement on the 1.20 billion crowns posted in the corresponding period last year.
The increase was bolstered by a 29 percent jump in profits from the non-life insurance business, and by a sharply improved return on the group's asset portfolio.
Capital gains and unrealised changes in value in the portfolio improved to 1.19 billion crowns from 848 million in the same 1995 period.
Although a fall in direct yield on shares and bonds to 729 million crowns from 834 million offset some of the gains, the total return on capital improved to 1.82 billion crowns from 1.62 billion crowns.
"It is with great satisfaction that I note that the thorough process of change that Trygg-Hansa is going through has begun to have results," group CEO Lars Thunell said in the company's interim results statement.
Trygg-Hansa has implemented an efficiency drive that it says will cut costs in its claims department alone by 200 million crowns a year.
Total operating costs for the period declined to 582 million crowns from 684 million in the first half of 1995.
Chief Financial Officer Zaid Pedersen told Reuters he was particularly pleased by the improved performance from insurance operations.
"In the longer term, it's very important that the core business does well," he said.
The improvement in the return on the investment portfolio was primarily the result of a sharp fall in interest rates over the first half, a trend that had bolstered the value of the bond portfolio and fuelled a rise in share prices.
Although the positive development in this area would continue for the rest of the year, Pedersen said investors should not expect a similar leap in the second half.
"Some of these are one-off gains here influenced by market developments. You can't multiply this result by two for the year, that would be too good, I guess," he said.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1006 ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)The loss-making North American trucks division of Swedish vehicle maker Volvo AB will break even in the first half of 1997, Volvo Trucks managing director Karl-Erik Trogen said on Wednesday.
"Our losses in North America will narrow in the first half of 1997. Some time during the first half of next year we will arrive at zero in our operating result," he told Reuters in an interview.
Volvo trucks operating result weakened sharply in first-half 1996 to 1.08 billion crowns from 2.94 billion. Trogen said a weak market and lower sales in north and south America were behind the fall.
-- Stcokholm newsroom +46 8 700 1006Profitability at Volvo Car, the biggest division of Swedish automotive group AB Volvo, will improve during autumn as its new S40/V40 car series replaces the older 400-series, Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson said on Wednesday.
"The profitability of the 400 series is useless. The S40/V40 is bringing a change of profitability that will have obvious implications," Johannesson told Reuters in an interview.
He declined to give a precise forecast for Volvo car sales for the second half of 1996 after Volvo car reported a small operating profit of 378 million crowns in Q2 1996 following two quarters of losses.
"The main reason is that we have achieved balance and managed to bring operating costs under control," he said.
The car division's sales fell 7.0 percent to 39.83 billion crowns in the first half of 1996, but new orders for its medium-sized car sector rose 11 percent thanks to the introduction of the new series.
"So far we have received 41,000 client orders for the S40/V40 and produced 30,000 of the new models. We are now over our planned rate of production for the model and are looking for total production this year of between 65,000 and 70,000," Johannesson added.
-- Henrik Alberius, Stockholm newsroom +46 8-700 1250Swedish truck maker Scania denied on Wednesday a German magazine report that it is negotiating with Germany's Volkswagen.
"We are not involved in any discussions with VW. Our only cooperation is that we market their products -- VW, Porsche, Seat and Skoda -- in Sweden," Scania spokesman Lars Christiansson told Reuters.
"Manager Magazin" reported on Tuesday that Scania and VW were negotiating on joint production of a middle-sized truck.
-- Henrik Alberius, Stockholm newsroom +46 8 700 1250Asian nations are eager to make use of the Internet in the field of banking and finance to meet individual country's needs, a senior official of computer group Hewlett-Packard Co said on Wednesday.
"The response through the region is quite phenomenal," Jeff Ayton, the region's director of marketing in the financial services division of Hewlett-Packard, told Reuters in an interview.
He said a Hewlett-Packard roadshow he held across the region revealed a keen interest in the use of Internet in banking and insurance. Internet experts say customers can use the network to transact business and banks can improve communications and customer service with its help.
"I don't think any Asian country wants to be left behind," he said, but added that the exact level of sophistication in the demand generated would depend on customer needs and infrastructure facilities in each nation.
With even rural areas now linked via satellites, there is a big potential for Internet-linked business in huge emerging markets, he said.
"Satellite technology is what will help in countries like China and India," he said, referring to their own satellite launch programmes.
Ayton said he had found interest in using the Internet in banking in the Philippines, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea.
Hewlett-Packard officials say that countries like India could leapfrog in computer networking technology because they have not yet invested huge amounts in computer infrastructure.
Ayton said he was scheduled to meet Indian banking officials next week to discuss Internet-related possibilities in the field.
Kapi Attawar, a senior Hewlett-Packard official dealing with emerging markets, said his company saw particular potential for the "Intranet". The latter enables local networks within companies to be linked to the worldwide information highway.
Many Indian companies already had local computing networks using basic data transmission facilities which may be used to hook on to Internet, Attawar said.Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently amount to 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of specialised railway carriages had hampered the ministry's attemtps to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said, adding that some 790,000 tonnes of lignite were already extracted and ready for shipment at mines across the country.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather settled in earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants, forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes during summer and up to 140,000 in the cold winter months.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to up output and gobble more coal than normal, he said.
"So far, Renel recieved approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data showed Romania extracted 23 million tonnes lignite and 3.47 million tonnes hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romania's coal production fell sharply after the December 1989 fall of communist rule. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines operated with bucket wheel excavators, conveyors, trucks and stackers. The remainder is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Investment by foreign oil firms in Ecuador will not be affected by the government decision to halt the operations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp, Energy and Mines Minister Alfredo Adoum said Wednesday.
"This is going to reassure all the other companies because they know that now they are all covered by the same rules. No one can have privileges," he said.
The government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador. 
Maxus, which has been operating fields near the Colombian border for the past nine years, is the only one of the foreign companies producing Ecuadoran oil which does not have a production-sharing agreement with the government. It has been engaged in tough negotiations over new contract terms.
Adoum said the government has pressed Maxus several times to sign a contract but the firm, which is a unit of Argentina's largest energy concern YPF SA, has put off taking a decision.
"Maxus has been reluctant, giving 1,000 excuses," he said. 
Ecuadoran law requires foreign firms to grant the state a share equivalent to at least 12.5 percent of its output.
Insisting that "we are not going to let them rob us", Adoum said the Ecuadoran government will fight any potential court action by Maxus.
"Up to now, we have paid Maxus $800 million in terms of all the infrastructure installed to extract the oil .... Up to now Maxus has extracted 50 million barrels of oil which with the sale price makes more or less $600 million," said Adoum.
"Up to now, the Ecuadoran people has not had a taste of one single liter of oil extracted by Maxus," he said. 
While local Maxus officials refused to comment, sources in the Ministry of Defense told Reuters that military personnel were already guarding Maxus's sites.
Mark Miller, executive vice-president of Maxus, said in New York that the company hopes to have something to say about its problems with the government in the next couple of days.
(Corrects to clarify that the company does not yet know when problems will be resolved).
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day. 
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
Ecuador, which left the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1992, produced 379,437 barrels of oil a day in 1995, up from 371,632 barrels a day the year before.
-- Quito Newsroom +5932 258-433William Resources Inc said Wednesday that it has acquired an interest in a high-grade deposit in Russia and Uzbekistan through its subsidiary, Rux Resources Inc.
The company said Rux has raised C$2.15 million (corrects from C$215) through a private placement to use as working capital.
Rux will acquire 50 percent of Nelkobazoloto, the Russian company which holds the right to mine the Shkolnoye high grade gold deposit in the Magadan region of Russia.
The Russian partner is contolled by Susumanzoloto, a gold producer in the Magadan region.
William Resources said the deposit contains an estimaed 340,000 ounces of minable gold reserves and could start to produce 66,000 ounces a year beginning in mid-1997.
The company said Rux has also entered into a letter of intent to buy 75 percent of Vetrenskoye Joint Co, a Russian company with the right to mine the Vetrenskoye high-grade gold deposit also in the Magadan region.
Rux will also become the owner of 49 pecent of an Uzbekistan joint venture company with precious metals deposits in Tashkent, William Resources said.
William Resources owns 70 percent of Rux.
	  -- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Inco Ltd said on Wednesday it has finally closed its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources Inc.
The closing gives Inco a leading role in the nickel market for years to come with the acquisition of the massive copper-cobalt-nickel deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.  
Diamond Fields shareholders had the choice to take common shares in Inco, cash up to a maximum of C$350 million, preferred shares in Inco or a new class of VBN shares to participate directly in the Voisey's Bay deposit.
Inco said Wednesday the full C$350 million was paid out. The company also distributed a total of 50.3 million common shares, 25.9 million Inco class VBN shares and 9.4 million preferred shares as part of the acquisition.
The deal ends a long takeover battle and legal saga. Inco's bid beat out rival Falconbridge Ltd last spring.  
But Inco refused to sign the dotted line when, days before the scheduled closing of the deal, a group of Texans launched a lawsuit against Diamond Fields executives and Inco.
The lawsuit was settled August 5, clearing the way for the deal to go through.
But for Inco, the deal was worth fighting for. The Voisey's Bay deposit is thought to be one of the largest metals discoveries in the world.
The site contains an estimated reserve of about 150 million tonnes of ore and will give Inco a solid chunk of the nickel market when production starts up in 1998 or 1999.
Inco may still face some roadblocks before it gets to that stage, however.
The nickel giant must negotiate with local native groups and win environmental approvals before it can go ahead with production.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Amway Corp has cancelled its private network distribution agreement with Tee-Comm Electronics Inc and its subsidiary AlphaStar Television Network Inc, the satellite communications company said Wednesday.
Tee-Comm and Alphastar said they were holding talks with Amway to set up a new contract.
An AlphaStar spokeswoman said the service was put in operation but Amway cancelled it because they were unhappy with it. The official would not give details on what Amway was displeased with.
"The issues and problems raised by Amway in the past have been rectified," AlphaStar president Murray Klippenstein said in a statement.
Tee-Comm and AlphaStar signed a contract a year ago to provide Amway with hardware and a broadcasting system so Amway could communicate with its more than one million salespeople, the spokeswoman explained.
Amway was involved in the testing of the program and problems that arose during the testing have been solved, she said.
She said she would not give details since the matter was now in the hands of lawyers.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Shares in Aur Resources Inc dropped Wednesday after it released results from its gold property in Nevada.
Shares were down C$0.90 to $8.95 on heavy trading of more than one million shares.
Since June, Aur said it has tested about two percent of its Coleman Canyon property located about 100 km north of Elko, Nevada.
"Investors think they've found dead ambers," said mining analyst Ray Goldie with Richardson Greenshields.  
"They haven't, though. They've found a lot of smoke," Goldie said, adding that exploration is still in its early stages.
The company said it was drilling to evaluate the potential for a large tonnage, open pit gold deposit.
Drilling intersected an average grade of 0.02 ounces of gold per tonne over 11.6 metres, the company said in a statement.
Aur said the results confirm the presence of widespread gold mineralization in the area, but the company needs to establish the continuity of ore-grade mineralization.  
The company said it plans to continue drilling and trenching in September.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Q2 ends July 27
				1996			    1995
 Shr	 profit	C$0.12     loss	C$0.26
 Net	 profit	   529     loss	 1,186
 Revs			31,314		   31,592
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	C$0.10     loss	C$0.35
 Net	 profit	   441     loss	 1,596
 Revs			60,565		   62,112
 Avg shrs		   4,561		    4,560
		(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Previous fiscal year ended July 29, 1995. Full name is Chateau Stores of Canada Ltd.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Zenon Environmental Inc said its Hungarian division won an C$11 million contract to provide a water treatment system and a five-year service contract in Poland.
Zenon's system will treat 150 cubic meters of water an hour, it said. Zenon is a water treatment and recycling firm.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Westcoast Energy Inc said Wednesday it will restructure its pipeline and field services divisions in an effort to lower costs and improve its natural gas delivery service to customers.
The gas pipeline and processing company said the move would result in about 300 job losses, roughly one quarter of the divisions' workforce, over the next year.
Westcoast said its gas producer customers face lower than expected sales prices which are forcing cost cuts at Westcoast.  
The company has applied to the National Energy Board for a deferral account in which to record costs of the restructuring. It did not specify the amount of the costs.  The affected operations are in British Columbia and Alberta.
"We want to be positioned to be able to compete vigorously for new business. We remain confident in the future development of untapped gas reserves in northeast British Columbia but we will have to manage any growth in the context of increasingly cyclical commodity pricing," said Westcoast president Michael Phelps.
A Westcoast spokeswoman said later that the company expects no "near-term financial impact" but there will be costs associated with the restructuring. The bulk of the layoffs will occur in September but it is not yet clear what the final amount of the related costs will be, she said.
-- Reuters Vancouver Bureau (604) 664-7314C-MAC Industries said on Wednesday it has sent a letter to shareholders of Circo Craft Co Inc advising it would not amend its C$9.50 per share takeover offer for the company.
C-MAC, a make of advanced electronic components said in the letter that as Circo Craft's recent earnings did not show an increase it believed the offer was adequate.
C-MAC also said the offer represents a premium of 38 percent over Circo's market value at the time of the offer.  
Circo, a maker of circuit boards, was trading under C$7 before the bid was announced by C-MAC on August 1. After the bid, the stock jumped on hopes of a bidding war or a sweetened offer by C-MAC.
Circo was off C$0.05 at C$10.10 while C-MAC was down C$0.35 at C$6.50 in early afternoon trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday.  
Circo Craft's board of directors recommended on August 19 that shareholders reject the bid and also disclosed that several other companies had entered into confidentiality agreements to review Circo's operations.
But C-MAC said its shareholders' letter that it was "surprised" at certain statements by Circo's board when itrejected the offer, including:
- CIBC Wood Gundy Securities Inc would recieve additional compensation if a superior offer was forthcoming.
- that the company would risk the long term value of Circo Craft by opening its books to other interested parties.
C-MAC said the offer will expire, as previously announced, on August 30.
Circo earlier reported that its earnings fell to C$0.16 per share, or to C$2,438,000 in the second quarter from C$0.15 per share, or C$2,400,000 in the year ago period.
-- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Canadian Bond Rating Service said on Wednesday that it removed Inco Ltd from its credit watch list, restoring previously assigned ratings.
CBRS also said it assigned a rating of P-3 to Inco's newly issued Series E Preferred Shares. The ratings are being reinstated at B++(High) and B++ for the outstanding senior unsecured debentures and term notes and convertible debentures of Inco, respectively, it said. CBRS's review had focused on Inco financing in its C$4.3 billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc and capital structure in respect of developing a nickel property at Voisey's Bay, Newfoundland.  
CBRS said the ratings outlook for Inco is stable. The agency said it recognizes the versatility of the financing methodology employed by Inco in the Diamond Fields acquisition, which was scheduled to close Wednesday.
The reinstatement of medium quality ratings for Inco reflects the maintenance of financial flexibility, the long life reserves position and expected continuation of favourable operating leverage for many years, CBRS said.  
The agency said there is no deterioration in the credit quality of outstanding securities at this stage and there will likely be no discernible impact on the credit quality in the intermediate term, as long as the costs of developing Voisey's Bay are held within budget and expectations on production costs and by-product credits are realized.
Proforma debt leverage is reduced to 20 percent from 34 percent at June 30, 1996 and will likely increase to 30-35 percent with the start of the project construction, but falls within the benchmarks deemed safe for the medium quality rating, CBRS said.
Inco's new Class E preferred shares are rated P-3 by CBRS, reflecting the expected stability of cash dividends payable at a rate of 5.5 percent a year for at least five years and other attractive equity-linked features, the agency said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Huntsman Corp, the nation's largest privately held chemicals company, expects to announce two acquisitions in the next 30 days, chief executive officer Jon Huntsman told Reuters in a telephone interview Wednesday.
One of the transactions, which are in the final stages of negotiations, calls for the purchase of a major polymers unit of a publicly held company, he said. The other acquisition will be a privately held packaging company.
Huntsman said both businesses to be acquired have annual sales of at least $100 million each.  
Huntsman, the patriarch of the family-owned business, declined to give other details of the anticipated acquisitions, citing confidentiality agreements.
His comments came one day after the company dropped its unsolicited $460 million bid for Rexene Corp, which had rejected the offer.
Huntsman also said he will fly to Europe on Saturday to negotiate several potential acquisitions there.
"We're in the middle of negotiations there for some very major European assets that could as much as double our European business," he said.  
The acquisitions are a key part of Huntsman's growth strategy, which calls for doubling 1995 revenues of $4.3 billion by the end of 2000. Much of that growth is expected to come from acquisitions.
The Salt Lake City-based firm dropped the bid for Rexene on Tuesday after the target rejected the offer in favor of its own internal growth plan. Huntsman had proposed buying Rexene for $15 per share and the assumption of $175 million in debt.
Huntsman said he was willing to pay $16 per share for Rexene, but Rexene adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated that offer also would be refused.  
"We have several other major acquisitions going right now and I just didn't feel it was worth the time and interest to try to negotiate with someone who had no interest in really working out a fair and equitable deal for shareholders," he said.
In rejecting the Huntsman offer, Rexene said its internal growth plan would serve the best interest of shareholders.
Huntsman also said he had considered launching a tender offer for Rexene, but "it's a very small industry, in the sense of the numbers of players, and it's not particularly an industry that we would want to be disruptive, or cause any type of turmoil, in."  
Some takeover traders had expected Huntsman would launch a tender offer for Rexene even though the company has never pursued a hostile takeover.
Although the failure to win Rexene marked the second time in recent months that Huntsman did not win its target, the company's top executive said its acquisition course will not change. In April, Huntsman's bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc was rejected in favor of a management buyout.
"These things don't mean a thing to us....they're not even a blip on the scope," he said.
Huntsman has long been known for its history of successful acquisitions, including the 1994 purchase of Texaco Inc's chemicals business.
The 59-year-old patriarch spoke from his hotel room in San Diego, where eight of his nine children had gathered for an annual retreat that combines the family business with family vacation.Sheldahl Inc said Wednesday it signed a memoradum of intent with Shinko Electric Co Ltd of Nagano, Japan.
The memorandum provides the framework for an extended partnership, details of which are being jointly developed, Sheldahl added.
Sheldahl said the agreement will outline increased cooperation between it and Shinko to produce Novaclad-based substrate materials.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Life USA Holding Inc said Wednesday it completed the acquisition of Tax Planning Seminars, a national life and annuity marketing organization based in Vorhees, N.J.
Tax Planning Seminars is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of LifeUSA Marketing Inc, which was formed by Life USA Holding to manage acquired marketing organizations.
Terms of the agreement between Tax Planning Seminars and Life USA were not disclosed. But Life USA said the purchase will consist of a combination of cash and stock, paid over a five year period.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.165		    $0.165
 Pay		    Oct 15
 Record		  Oct 1
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Express Scripts Inc said Wednesday it created a new subsidiary, Express Scripts Vision Corp.
The new subsidiary will be led by newly appointed president Larry Zarin, a consultant for Express Scripts over the last 18 months.
Express Scripts said the new vision care subsidiary comes on the heels of new alliances with Ciba Vision Ophthalmics and The Eye Health Network.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.01		    $0.02
 Net			    147			445
 Revs			 2,808		    3,296
		     NINE MONTHS
 Shr			  $0.01		    $0.02
 Net			    303			538
 Revs			 8,411		    7,517
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Hit by a government probe and with its share price near a three-year low, United American Healthcare Corp said its troubled Tennessee operations were profitable and could grow if state regulators would cooperate.
"Things are operating in an absolutely 100 percent normal manner (in Tennessee) and adding significantly to the bottom line," said chief executive Dr. Julius Combs in an interview with Reuters last week.  
"The only thing we're hoping to be able to project soon will be commercial enrollment. We think there's a significant market that is available in Tennessee," Combs said.
Detroit-based United American, which went public in 1991, has an unusual specialty in Medicaid markets. It manages four healthcare plans with 235,000 enrollees. Three years ago, Forbes magazine named it one of the best small U.S. companies.
It remains one of few African-American controlled companies on the New York Stock Exchange.
However, United American has problems going deeper than a broad slump in healthcare stocks, analysts said.  
State and federal authorities last year launched an investigation of marketing practices by United American affiliates in Tennessee that led to two fraud convictions.
A Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokesman declined to comment on whether that investigation was continuing.
Combs said he did not know the probe's status, either.
The company lost $0.13 per share in the third quarter ended March 31 on revenue of $27.7 million, compared with a $0.33 per share profit on revenue of $17.7 million in the year-earlier quarter.  
The company is comfortable with analysts' forecasts of fiscal 1996 results ranging from a $0.04 per share loss to a $0.07 per share profit, Combs said.
In fiscal 1995, United American posted a profit of $1.01 per share on revenue of $68.5 million.
The third-quarter 1996 loss reflected losses by affiliates, a decrease in Tennessee HMO enrollments and "the costs of defending the company in ongoing litigation," it said.  
United American continues to fight two lawsuits filed late last year by shareholders alleging false and misleading statements. Combs said legal costs have been "substantial."
United American's core business, with 45 percent of its revenue, is a Detroit-area HMO. Smaller businesses are located in Cleveland, New York City and Maryland.
About 23 percent of revenue comes from managing Omnicare-TN, a Tennessee preferred provider organization that holds the company's biggest promise and its biggest problems, analysts said.  
Combs said state regulators reviewed the company's books last month but put no timetable on the months-old HMO license review process.
United American president Ronald Dobbins said, "All of our discussions with them have indicated that there is no reason why the license will not be approved."
--Chicago newsroom, 312 408-87871996			1995
 Shr	 loss	   $0.26   profit	 $0.02
 Net	 loss	   1,073   profit	    70
 Revs			 8,216		    7,924
 Avg shrs			NA			 NA
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 loss	   $0.21   profit	 $0.08
 Net	 loss	     859   profit	   303
 Revs			17,102		   16,135
 Avg shrs			NA			 NA
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: 1996 results include $768,389 in direct expense associated with failed attempt to acquire Papa Gino's, a 180-unit regional pizza chain. In June, Noble Roman's said it called off the acquisition that had become subject to numerous delays and uncertainties.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Spartech Corp said Wednesday its current backlog stands at a record level of more than $34.0 million, up 12 percent from a year ago.
Based on the backlog, Spartech, which makes thermoplastic materials and polymeric compounds, said it remains cautiously optimistic about the fiscal fourth quarter.
Earlier, Spartech reported earnings for the third quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share, up from $0.16 a year ago. For the first nine months of the year, it earned $0.55 a share, up from $0.45 a year ago.  
"Spartech Plastics, our extruded sheet and rollstock unit, continues to produce excellent results," Bradley Buechler, president, said in a statement. "Third quarter 1996 sales generated by this 11-plant group rose approximately 16 percent as compared to 1995, with solid gains also being recorded in operating earnings."
He added that sales within the merchant compounding group declined modestly during the quarter. Spartech Vy-Cal plastics, a calendered PVC film operation, recorded a strong gain in operating earnings as a result of excellent volume and more stability in the price of raw materials, Buechler said.
The company said the acquisition of the Hamelin Group remains on track, with closing expected on or about September 30. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings almost immediately, David Mueller, chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Standard Management Corp said Wednesday it signed an agreement with Sands Brothers & Co Ltd of New York to provide financial services and advice.
Standard Management said Sands will provide advisory services related to merger and acquisition activity, financial management and financing strategies.
The company said it has grown to over $490 million in assets as of June 30 from $198 million in assets when it went public in February, 1993.
Standard Management has operations in the United States and Europe. Its stated growth strategy is through the sale and distribution of life insurance related products and through the acquisition of other companies and blocks of business.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Argosy Gaming Co said Wednesday that the Indiana Gaming Commisson extended for 180 days its certificate of suitability for Argosy's Lawrenceburg, Ind. joint venture project.
The certificate was extended effective August 20.
In July, Argosy said its Indiana license was challenged.  
Argosy said construction of temporary Lawrenceburg facilities is on schedule for completion this November. The company said it anticipates opening its facilities once the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers issues a permit for a permanent site and the Indiana Gaming Commission issues a final gaming license.
The Indiana Gaming Commission confirmed that it extended Argosy's certificate for Lawrenceburg.
The commission also said it rejected an application by Shilling Casino Corp, doing business as Empire Casino & Resort, that had sought to revoke Argosy's certificate.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Below are the current average ex-UK GBP air cargo market rates per kg for a 100 kg shipment, with a volume-to-weight ratio of six-to-one:
						  Aug 21    vs	Aug 7
		   UNITED STATES
LON-JFK					  O.62		 0.63
LON-LAX					  0.70		 0.71
LON-CHI					  0.69		 0.69
		   ASIA-PACIFIC
LON-HKG					  1.20		 1.19
LON-SIN					  1.23		 1.23
LON-NRT					  1.92		 1.91
LON-SEL					  1.80		 1.78
LON-SYD					  2.05		 2.05
		   MIDDLE EAST
LON-DXB					  O.70		 0.70
LON-BAH					  O.85		 0.86
			  AFRICA
LON-JNB					  1.71		 1.70
		   SCANDINAVIA
LON-STO					  0.7O		 0.70
LON-CPH					  0.65		 0.65
		   LATIN AMERICA
LON-SAO					  2.04		 2.02
*The rates quoted in this report were obtained by Reuters journalists on confidential basis from a range of airlines, large forwarders and smaller air cargo agents based at the three main London airports.
*All prices quoted in sterling.
*The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and are indicative or current market activity.British Gas shares climbed three percent on Wednesday after industry watchdog Ofgas softened its stance in a crucial review of the utility's pipeline operating unit TransCo.
But while investors welcomed the new proposals, British Gas said it had hoped for bigger concessions and added it would try to wring further compromises out of regulator Clair Spottiswoode before deciding whether to accept Ofgas' review.
The watchdog said it wanted TransCo, which is British Gas's biggest earner, to slice 20 percent off its charges in the year from April 1997. It had initially proposed a 20 to 28 percent price cut in May.
But Ofgas's main concession was in the price cuts for the four years to 2001, saying that charges should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed three months ago.
The final proposals would lead to a cut in the average British household gas bill of almost 30 pounds ($45) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
Shares in British Gas gained 6-1/2 pence to close at 204-1/2 on the milder proposals.
They had collapsed in May, losing 25 percent of their value in the two weeks after Spottiswoode relaesed her harsh initial proposals.
Though she has now made some concessions, the final review is still tough overall and will probably lead to a big dividend cut next year, analysts said.
British Gas stuck to its earlier prediction that lower charges by TransCo to gas suppliers will mean that up to half of the unit's 20,000 jobs will go.
The utility said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
But Spottiswoode said her proposals were final and added that only details were negotiable.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the Mergers and Monopolies Commission," she told Reuters.
The MMC Britain's senior competition authority.
Spottiswoode said her compromises followed new investment data supplied by British Gas in the last couple of months.
Another reason for a more relaxed regime was that Ofgas wanted to prevent accusations that it aimed to mend any false generosity in the past by being extra harsh now.
"We actually got a very good compromise for both shareholders and customers," Spottiswoode told a news conference.
But Ofgas has to refer the matter to the MMC if British Gas rejects the latest proposals.
Most investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
But some analysts said British Gas has little to lose if the TransCo review is vetted by the MMC.
"I advise them to reject. It is worth a try," said Daniel Martin, analyst at brokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.Lloyd's of London members agency LRG Cater Allen has updated its preliminary recommendations for each underwriting syndicate on which it has a participation for 1996.
LRG said in a statement that it will comment on all syndicates trading for 1997 when it issues its full Syndicate Commentaries Book later this month.
SyndRecommendation		 Synd Recommendation	  Synd
Recommend.
 2  Sell			     554  Hold			1007
Hold
 33 Buy				557  Hold			1027
Sell
 37 Buy				566  Hold			1028
Buy
 40 Umbrella Syndicate	   570  Hold			1036
Sell
 44 Sell			     575  Sell			1047
Hold
 45 Hold			     587  Buy			 1069
Hold
 47 Hold			     590  Hold			1084
Hold
 48 Sell			     603  Umbrella Syndicate    1121
Hold
 51 Hold			     609  Hold			1141
Buy
 52 Buy				623  Hold			1156
Buy
 55 Hold			     625  Hold			1173
Hold
 62 Hold			     657  Hold pending review   1176
Hold
 79 Hold			     672  Buy			 1183
Hold
102 Buy				702  Sell			1206
Sell
112 Hold			     724  Sell			1212
Sell
123 Umbrella Syndicate	   727  Hold pending review   1215
Buy
138 Hold			     732  Buy			 1221
Sell
183 Buy				734  Buy			 1234
Hold
204 Hold			     735  Hold			2001
Hold
205 Buy				741  Sell
218 Buy				779  Buy
219 Hold			     780  Hold
227 Sell			     800  Sell
260 Sell			     807  Hold
271 Hold			     824  Umbrella Syndicate
308 Hold			     839  Hold pending further review
314 Sell			     861  Sell
318 Hold			     866  Buy
322 Hold			     877  Hold
332 Sell - Merging with 1171   887  Umbrella Syndicate
340 Hold			     892  Sell
362 Umbrella Syndicate	   925  Buy
375 Hold			     947  Sell
376 Hold			     955  Umbrella Syndicate
382 Hold			     957  Sell
386 Buy				958  Buy
435 Hold			     959  Hold
439 Sell			     960  Hold
457 Hold			     962  Sell
483 Hold			     963  Buy
484 Hold			     979  Sell - Syndicate ceasing
488 Sell			     982  Hold pending further review
500 Buy				990  Buy
510 Umbrella Syndicate	   991  Hold
529 Sell			     994  Hold
544 Sell			     998  Hold
545 Syndicate Merging	    1003 Hold
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Lloyd's of London members agency LRG Cater Allen has updated its preliminary recommendations for each underwriting syndicate on which it has a participation for 1996.
LRG said in a statement that it will comment on all syndicates trading for 1997 when it issues its full Syndicate Commentaries Book later this month.
Synd Recommendation		Synd Recommendation	  Synd
Recommend.
 2  Sell			     554  Hold			1007
Hold
 33 Buy				557  Hold			1027
Sell
 37 Buy				566  Hold			1028
Buy
 40 Umbrella Syndicate	   570  Hold			1036
Sell
 44 Sell			     575  Sell			1047
Hold
 45 Hold			     587  Buy			 1069
Hold
 47 Hold			     590  Hold			1084
Hold
 48 Sell			     603  Umbrella Syndicate    1121
Hold
 51 Hold			     609  Hold			1141
Buy
 52 Buy				623  Hold			1156
Buy
 55 Hold			     625  Hold			1173
Hold
 62 Hold			     657  Hold pending review   1176
Hold
 79 Hold			     672  Buy			 1183
Hold
102 Buy				702  Sell			1206
Sell
112 Hold			     724  Sell			1212
Sell
123 Umbrella Syndicate	   727  Hold pending review   1215
Buy
138 Hold			     732  Buy			 1221
Sell
183 Buy				734  Buy			 1234
Hold
204 Hold			     735  Hold			2001
Hold
205 Buy				741  Sell
218 Buy				779  Buy
219 Hold			     780  Hold
227 Sell			     800  Sell
260 Sell			     807  Hold
271 Hold			     824  Umbrella Syndicate
308 Hold			     839  Hold pending further review
314 Sell			     861  Sell
318 Hold			     866  Buy
322 Hold			     877  Hold
332 Sell - Merging with 1171   887  Umbrella Syndicate
340 Hold			     892  Sell
362 Umbrella Syndicate	   925  Buy
375 Hold			     947  Sell
376 Hold			     955  Umbrella Syndicate
382 Hold			     957  Sell
386 Buy				958  Buy
435 Hold			     959  Hold
439 Sell			     960  Hold
457 Hold			     962  Sell
483 Hold			     963  Buy
484 Hold			     979  Sell - Syndicate ceasing
488 Sell			     982  Hold pending further review
500 Buy				990  Buy
510 Umbrella Syndicate	   991  Hold
529 Sell			     994  Hold
544 Sell			     998  Hold
545 Syndicate Merging	    1003 Hold
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769MacMillan Bloedel Ltd said on Wednesday that Richard Haskayne has been named chairman effective October 1.
Calgary, Alberta-born Haskayne has been on the MacMillan Bloedel board since 1994. He succeeds Ray Smith who announced his retirement last month. Haskayne is a past chairman and chief executive of Interhome Energy Inc, the parent of Interprovincial Pipe Line and Home Oil.
"I...want to state clearly that I have great confidence in CEO Bob Findlay and his management team," Haskayne said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Shares in Inco Ltd were up in heavy trading Wednesday morning on confirmation of a share buy-back and pending closure of its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources.
"Everything is going ahead," said mining analyst Doug Leishman at Yorkton Securities in Vancouver.
"They've got Voisey's Bay, and Inco's going to be a big company for a long, long time."
The stock rose C$0.75 to C$45.10 on the Toronto Stock Exchange in trading of 1.3 million shares. In New York, Inco's shares were up 5/8 to 32-7/8 in trading of 902,000 shares.  
"It's active because of the announcement that they're buying their stock back," said Joe Ismail at Maison Placements Canada Inc.
"People are taking opportunities because they know they can get a fixed price at this level here."
Inco said on Tuesday it would buy back 10 percent of its shares over the next year to offset earnings dilution stemming from its acquisition of Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in Voisey's Bay, Labrador.  
The takeover is expected to close formally at 1600 EDT/2000 GMT on Wednesday barring any unforeseen problems, an Inco spokesman said.
The closing prompted Canadian Bond Rating Service to remove Inco from its credit watch list. Moody's said Wednesday it affirmed Inco's Baa2 senior debt rating.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Class B shares of Bombardier Inc rose 20 cents to reach 19.35 in brisk trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning after it forecast 30 to 35 orders for its Regional Jet in its third quarter.
On Tuesday evening, a Bombardier spokesman told Reuters that Bombardier is confident it will get the firm orders.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," spokesman Michel Lord said in an interview.  
Analysts said Wednesday that the rally in Bombardier's Class B shares was related to Beaudoin's forecast, which was an unusual statement because Bombardier is traditionally loathe to make such specific forecasts.
"That was the most exciting piece of news that they gave us yesterday. This company doesn't say things like that unless it feels very comfortable in saying it," said analyst Jon Reider, of Richardson Greenshields.
"There is no question that any movement in the stock today I think is based on that," he said.
Bombardier's stock has rallied over the last 11 trading days, recovering ground lost earlier on concerns that it had not announced new orders for the Regional Jet.
"The one thing that had led to weakness or concern in the stock price was the fact that there was a weak order book developing for the Regional Jet," said Reider.
That would almost double the current order backlog of 40 for the 50-seat jet. Montreal-based Bombardier is producing the plane at a rate of five each month.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by Chief Executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended Oct. 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production output to Jan. 31, 1998.  Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Sierra Leone has joined a regional scheme using aerial monitoring to help protect West African national fisheries from poaching by foreign vessels, a fisheries official said on Wednesday.
Naib Iscandri, deputy director fisheries at the marine resources ministry, told Reuters that the first flight across Sierra Leone's territorial waters took place on Tuesday.
The scheme, organised by a sub-regional commission on fisheries and funded by Luxembourg, groups Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania and Senegal, and now Sierra Leone.
"Sierra Leone is not a member of the sub-regional commission on fisheries but it is a member of the regional project for aerial monitoring of fishing zones," Iscandri said.
Fishing plays an important role in the economic life of coastal communities in West African states bordering the Atlantic Ocean and a major role in several national economies. Russian and Spanish fishermen have been accused of poaching.
Cape Verde, Mauritania and Senegal have each provided the commission with one plane for the job of monitoring.
"The use of planes for surveillance of the country's territorial waters will greatly reduce poaching which has almost crippled the country's fishing industry," Iscandi said.Half yr ended June 30
		(million rand unless stated)
    Shr (cts)		    271.2    vs 175.9
    Div (cts)		    140.0    vs 116.0
    Net attrib surplus	 667.0    vs 422.5
Div payable October 9
On register September 6
Full name: Liberty Life Association of Africa Ltd
NOTE - The company said shareholders would be offered capitalisation shares in lieu of the cash dividend.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast the net surplus per share at a consensus 252.7 cents with the range 240.0-268.0. The dividend was forecast at 145.7 cents with the range 145.0-148.0. -- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Albania's national carrier Albanian Airlines will freeze its operations before the end of September because its hub airport will be undergoing renovation, a senior company official said on Wednesday.
"We are freezing the operations because the government will start the reconstruction of Tirana's Rinasi Airport runway," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters.
"Unfortunately there is only one runway at Rinasi and our company suffers most from the construction. We cannot work during the building process," he said.
The company's 150 employees would be on leave without pay during the "freeze", but the official guaranteed they would be able to return to their jobs when the airline resumed operations. He could not say when the work would be completed.
He repeated the company's denial of a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the airline was suspending flights because it was facing bankruptcy.
He said the airline planned to restart service after the renovation was completed, adding the company's board had convened this week to discuss "how to restart operations after the reconstruction".
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between the state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.Russia's AO Aviastar aircraft manufacturer has suspended production because its power supplies have been cut off as the company has not payed its electricity bills, a company source said on Wednesday.
"All staff (about 28,000 workers) have been sent on holiday until September," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters by telephone from the central Russian city of Ulyanovsk.
Interfax news agency said Aviastar's debts for electricity were 130 billion roubles, and management planned to cut staff numbers next month.
There was no official comment from the company.
The shut-down at Aviastar, which manufactures both cargo and passenger planes, follows agreement earlier this month to set up a Taiwan subsidiary, Aviastar Asia Corp, to market and service Tupolev Tu-204 jets in South-East Asia.
Aviastar commercial director Nikolai Kachalov said Aviastar had invested $250,000 in the new company out of its total capital of $10 million.
Japanese companies Tomen Corporation and Yamaichi Securities Company Ltd were also involved in the project as well as several Taiwan firms.
Kachalov said Aviastar currently had 680 options for Tu-204 passenger and cargo aircraft from companies in Britain, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Poland, Iran and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
--Viktor Anoshkin, Moscow newsroom, +7095 941 8520Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently stand at 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of rail wagons had hampered the ministry's attempts to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (the Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said. Some 790,000 tonnes of lignite had already mined and were ready for shipment.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather arrived earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes in summer and up to 140,000 in winter.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to raise output and consume more coal than normal, he added.
"So far, Renel received approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data show Romania has mined 23 million tonnes of lignite and 3.47 million tonnes of hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romanian coal production fell sharply after the end of communist rule in December 1989. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines and the rest is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Negotiations are reaching their final stage in the sale of up to 75 percent in Polish food retail and wholesale chain  Polski Handel Spozywczy SA (PHS), a Privatisation Ministry spokesman said.
"Negotiations are reaching their final stage," Jerzy Godula told Reuters.
Financial daily Parkiet reported on Wednesday that three bidders out of an original 30 remained in the negotiations -- wholesaler PLI, the Elektromis-Poznanska Szkola Handlu trade school and a consortium of food producers.
Parkiet said PHS, with about 650 wholesale and retail outlets across Poland and more than 6,000 employees, had 549.7 million zlotys in retail turnover last year and 203.3 million in wholesale turnover.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Cargo imports at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased in the January-to-May period by 18.5 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO IMPORTS (in tonnes)		1996     1995  PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE			    8,815.5  7,439.4	 +18.5
 --chartered flights			65.7    159.0	 -58.7
 --scheduled flights domestic	   93.5    101.7	  -8.1
 --scheduled flights international 7,042.5  6,218.6	 +13.2
 --trucks				  1,613.8    960.1	 +68.1
 MAY					 1,966.9  1,576.1	 +24.8
 --chartered flights			37.3    110.2	 -66.2
 --scheduled flights domestic	   20.6     18.7	 +10.2
 --scheduled flights international 1,544.1  1,238.3	 +24.7
 --trucks				    364.9    208.9	 +74.7
 APRIL				     1,826.1  1,507.2	 +21.2
 --chartered flights			 9.2	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	   17.9     20.1	 -10.9
 --scheduled flights international 1,452.6  1,285.6	 +13.0
 --trucks				    346.4    201.5	 +71.9
 MARCH				     1,864.6  1,673.6	 +11.4
 --chartered flights			 1.2	0.7	 +71.4
 --scheduled flights domestic	   23.2     20.8	 +11.5
 --scheduled flights international 1,513.8  1,426.4	  +6.1
 --trucks				    326.4    225.7	 +44.6
 FEBRUARY				  1,555.1  1,283.3	 +21.2
 --chartered flights			 0.4     24.2	 -98.3
 --scheduled flights domestic	   16.3     19.3	 -15.5
 --scheduled flights international 1,293.0  1,116.6	 +15.8
 --trucks				    245.4    123.2	 +99.2
 JANUARY				   1,602.8  1,399.2	 +14.6
 --chartered flights			17.6     23.9	 -26.4
 --scheduled flights domestic	   15.5     22.8	 -32.0
 --scheduled flights international 1,239.0  1,151.7	  +7.6
 --trucks				    330.7    200.8	 +64.7
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Cargo trade at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased 21.3 percent in May 1996 from May 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO TRADE (in tonnes)		 MAY 96   MAY 95 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL TRADE				3,015.5  2,486.3	+21.3
 --chartered flights			 43.5    110.2	-60.5
 --scheduled flights domestic	   282.4    258.0	 +9.5
 --scheduled flights international  2,198.4  1,829.4	+20.2
 --trucks				     491.2    288.7	+70.1
 TOTAL EXPORTS			    1,048.6    910.2	+15.2
 --chartered flights			  6.2	0.0	    -
 --scheduled flights domestic	   261.8    239.3	 +9.4
 --scheduled flights international    654.3    591.1	+10.7
 --trucks				     126.3     79.8	+58.3
 TOTAL IMPORTS			    1,966.9  1,576.1	+24.8
 --chartered flights			 37.3    110.2	-66.2
 --scheduled flights domestic	    20.6     18.7	+10.2
 --scheduled flights international  1,544.1  1,238.3	+24.7
 --trucks				     364.9    208.9	+74.7
 TRADE BALANCE			     -918.3   -665.9	    -
 --chartered flights			-31.1   -110.2	    -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  +241.2   +220.6	    -
 --scheduled flights international   -889.8   -647.2	    -
 --trucks				    -238.6   -129.1	    -
--------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In the trade balance, positive numbers indicate export surpluses; negative numbers indicate export deficits. Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Cargo exports at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased in the January-to-May period by 14.2 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO EXPORTS (in tonnes)		1996     1995  PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE			    5,125.5  4,489.0	 +14.2
 --chartered flights		     146.7     43.2	+239.6
 --scheduled flights domestic	1,276.7  1,118.0	 +14.2
 --scheduled flights international 3,091.9  2,885.5	  +7.2
 --trucks				    610.2    442.3	 +38.0
 MAY					 1,048.6    910.2	 +15.2
 --chartered flights			 6.2	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  261.8    239.3	  +9.4
 --scheduled flights international   654.3    591.1	 +10.7
 --trucks				    126.3     79.8	 +58.3
 APRIL				     1,081.4    871.9	 +24.0
 --chartered flights			23.3	0.1   +23,200.0
 --scheduled flights domestic	  263.0    205.1	 +28.2
 --scheduled flights international   653.0    571.4	 +14.3
 --trucks				    142.1     95.3	 +49.1
 MARCH				     1,124.3    969.8	 +15.9
 --chartered flights			56.1	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  262.1    232.6	 +12.7
 --scheduled flights international   672.5    635.1	  +5.9
 --trucks				    133.6    102.1	 +30.9
 FEBRUARY				    943.3    879.2	  +7.3
 --chartered flights			 1.0     43.1	 -97.7
 --scheduled flights domestic	  246.9    209.2	 +18.0
 --scheduled flights international   590.7    545.4	  +8.3
 --trucks				    104.7     81.5	 +28.5
 JANUARY				     927.9    857.9	  +8.2
 --chartered flights			60.1	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  242.9    231.8	  +4.8
 --scheduled flights international   521.4    542.5	  -3.9
 --trucks				    103.5     83.6	 +23.8
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo trade by 22.7 percent in May 1996 from May 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data was supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO TRADE (in tonnes)     MAY 1996    MAY 1995    PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL TRADE			1,385.7     1,129.5	   +22.7
 --chartered flights		  4.1	   0.8	  +412.5
 --scheduled flights	    1,297.0     1,064.9	   +21.8
 --trucks				84.6	  63.8	   +32.6
 TOTAL EXPORTS			488.8	 434.2	   +12.6
 --chartered flights		  0.0	   0.8	  -100.0
 --scheduled flights		405.2	 369.6	    +9.6
 --trucks				83.6	  63.8	   +31.0
 TOTAL IMPORTS			896.9	 695.3	   +29.0
 --chartered flights		  4.1	   0.0		 -
 --scheduled flights		891.8	 695.3	   +28.3
 --trucks				 1.0	   0.0		 -
 TRADE BALANCE		     -408.1	-261.1		 -
 --chartered flights		 -4.1	  +0.8		 -
 --scheduled flights	     -486.6	-325.7		 -
 --trucks			     +82.6	 +63.8		 -
--------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In the trade balance, positive numbers indicate export surpluses; negative numbers indicate export deficits.
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its aircraft fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo imports in the January-to-May period by 17.8 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO IMPORTS (in tonnes)    1996	  1995	 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE		  3,935.5     3,341.4		+17.8
 --chartered flights	    40.8	  65.6		-37.8
 --scheduled flights	 3,887.7     3,268.9		+18.9
 --trucks			    7.0	   6.9		 +1.4
 MAY				 896.9	 695.3		+29.0
 --chartered flights	     4.1	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   891.8	 695.3		+28.3
 --trucks			    1.0	   0.0		    -
 APRIL			     835.9	 718.7		+16.3
 --chartered flights	    23.8	  28.4		-16.2
 --scheduled flights	   809.8	 690.3		+17.3
 --trucks			    2.3	   0.0		    -
 MARCH			     853.9	 791.9		 +7.8
 --chartered flights	    12.7	  36.5		-65.2
 --scheduled flights	   837.5	 752.1		+11.4
 --trucks			    3.7	   3.3		+12.1
 FEBRUARY			  704.8	 540.5		+30.4
 --chartered flights	     0.0	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   704.8	 536.9		+31.3
 --trucks			    0.0	   3.6	     -100.0
 JANUARY			   644.0	 595.0		 +8.2
 --chartered flights	     0.2	   0.7		-71.4
 --scheduled flights	   643.8	 594.3		 +8.3
 --trucks			    0.0	   0.0		    -
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its airplane fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo exports in the January-to-May period by 8.3 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO EXPORTS (in tonnes)    1996	  1995	 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE		  2,266.3     2,092.1		 +8.3
 --chartered flights	     4.9	  12.4		-60.5
 --scheduled flights	 1,896.7     1,745.9		 +8.6
 --trucks			  364.7	 333.8		 +9.3
 MAY				 488.8	 434.2		+12.6
 --chartered flights	     0.0	   0.8	     -100.0
 --scheduled flights	   405.2	 369.6		 +9.6
 --trucks			   83.6	  63.8		+31.0
 APRIL			     497.0	 426.1		+16.6
 --chartered flights	     1.9	  11.6		-83.6
 --scheduled flights	   405.2	 342.4		+18.3
 --trucks			   89.9	  72.1		+24.7
 MARCH			     478.8	 472.5		 +1.3
 --chartered flights	     1.9	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   408.5	 395.8		 +3.2
 --trucks			   68.4	  76.7		-10.8
 FEBRUARY			  434.3	 371.6		+16.9
 --chartered flights	     0.9	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   361.7	 309.5		+16.9
 --trucks			   71.7	  62.1		+15.5
 JANUARY			   367.4	 387.7		 -5.2
 --chartered flights	     0.2	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   316.1	 328.6		 -3.8
 --trucks			   51.1	  59.1		-13.5
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its airplane fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Kazakhstan's goverment has decided to shut down state-owned Kazakhstan National Airways (KazAir) and establish a new national carrier, KazAir vice-president Ildus Nazmutdinov said on Wednesday.
KazAir emerged from the former Soviet airline Aeroflot and provided regular domestic and international flights. It also ran a network of 21 airports.
It was managed by privately owned Kazkommertsbank after it ran into financial problems earlier this year.
A new airline must be registered with all international aviation organisations, Nazmutdinov told Reuters, adding that non-profitable divisions would be excluded from the new airline's structure.
He declined to give KazAir's sales volumes or say how many aircraft it was operating. It would be take about six months to get full information about its financial situation, he said.
U.S. publication Airline Financial News said in July that KazAir was flying five Antonovs, an Ilyushin, four Tupolevs and a Yakovlev 42. Its one Boeing 747 was used for VIP purposes. Six 737s had been ordered but not delivered, it said.
Ruslan Zusangaliyev, KazAir's debt manager, said the goverment wanted to write off around $58 million owed by the airline.
--Almaty Newsroom, (3272) 509410Argentina's oil firm YPF SA said on Wednesday the operations of its Maxus Energy Corp subsidiary in Ecuador, which the Quito government has banned, account for only one percent of its sales.
"The income from this operation represents approximately one percent of the consolidated sales of YPF SA and its results are not significant," the company said in a statement.
Ecuador's government announced late on Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
But YPF president Nells Leon told Reuters that Maxus was still operating normally on Wednesday. He said negotiations to reach a new agreement were under way with Petroecuador.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655The approval of a feasibility study for a "dry canal" across Nicaragua to complement the Panama Canal has been delayed to August 27, a company official said on Wednesday.
"We came here to sign it on August 15, but the Nicaraguan government had some more paperwork to do, so their approval of the study has been delayed to August 27," Don Bosco, president of the Canal Interoceanico de Nicaragua S.A. (CINN), told Reuters. Despite the postponement, there is an understanding the government will approve the study, project coordinator John Sobke said.  
Sobke said the possibility of the dry canal becoming a reality was "as real as you can get."
"With the problems the canal options in other countries have had, we're the only game in town," Sobke said.
The proposed dry canal is a 236 mile (377 km) rail system to transport container cargo across the Central American isthmus.
The $1.4 billion project, the largest in Nicaraguan history, will include two new container ports and surrounding free-trade zones and will meet the demands of the expanding container shipping market, CINN general manager Juan Carlos Rivas said.
The feasibility study is expected to take one year and construction three to four years. Crossing Central America on the dry canal will take three hours and will be cheaper than crossing the Panama Canal, Rivas said.
The project is expected to create 20,000 direct jobs and 70,000 spin-off jobs in Nicaragua, one of the poorest countries in Latin America.Argentina will select a financial consultant to advise the government on the privatization of the country's 57 airports on August 26, a top official said on Wednesday.
Kleinwort Benson, Salomon Brothers, UBS and Coopers and Lybrand were chosen in the pre-qualifying bids for the consultancy contract, Miguel Velarde, adviser to the official in charge of the airports sale, told Reuters.
"The winner of the contract will advise on the form of the privatization," said Velarde.
One of the main issues the consultancy will advise on is whether or not the 57 airports will be sold in one batch or whether there will be more than one concessions, for instance splitting Buenos Aires' main international and main domestic airports in two.
President Carlos Menem has stated he wants the concessions for the airports to be sold by January. The investment necessary to bring the airports up to scratch would be about $1.65 billion. The concessions will last for 25 years.
-- Axel Bugge, Buenos Aires Newsroom, 54 1 318 0668The oil installations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp  in Ecuador are operating normally and have not been occupied by the army, Nells Leon, president of Maxus' owner, YPF SA, said Wednesday.
But Nells Leon told Reuters that talks to end a ban on Maxus' operations announced by the Ecuadoran government may "not be short".  
"Our area in Ecuador is producing normally and has not been taken by the army," Leon said, denying reports that the armed forces had occupied the company's block number 16.
With respect to declarations in the United States by Maxus' executive Vice-President Mark Miller that the company's difficulties with the government should be cleared up in two days, Leon said: "In the next two days we are going to set the framework under which the terms of the negotiation will be carried out."
He said it was difficult to say how long the negotiation would take: "I can't say .... I expect it will not be short."  
Nells Leon said: "We have a contract signed by the authorities under Ecuadoran law .... If the government proposes a change we will study it."
Asked whether he felt the government in Quito was changing the rules under which the company was operating in Ecuador, Nells Leon said: "I did not say that they are changing the rules."
He said "The government has asked for the contract to be renegotiated .... so that is what our regional manager in Quito is doing together with our partner from Petroecuador."
Ecuador's government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day.
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655After three failed attempts, receivers of Venezuela's bankrupt Aeropostal will take the airline company to the auction block for a fourth time on August 30.
"If none of the other creditors have any objections, the auction will be Friday next week," Servio Altuve, one of the airline's receivers, told a meeting of the board of creditors.  
A base price is yet to be set, but sources told Reuters it would be around $24 million, down from the last auction's $32 million base price.
Five groups of investors expressed interest in the airline during the creditors' meeting: England's World Aviation Group, the Venezuelan-U.S. consortium Alas; a consortium of former Aeropostal pilots and Delta Airlines executives; Venezuela's Zuliana de Aviacion; and the Venezuelan consortium Cavendes- Laser.
The airline's first auction attempt failed in July 1994 when the Venezuelan Investment Fund delcared void an an 80 percent public offering valued at $62 million.
The airline was decalred bankrupt and closed in September 1994.
-- Ana Isabel Martinez, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405The captain of the port of Coatzacoalcos confirmed Wednesday that the crude export port of Pajaritos, which comes under his juridiction, has been closed to all shipping.
"The port of Pajaritos was closed for leaving ships this morning," Juan Francisco Resendez Estrada told Reuters in a telephone interview. He explained it was obviously open for incoming vessels that needed to take shelter from Tropical Storm Dolly.
Pajaritos in the state of Veracruz is one of three crude export terminals closed because of the threatening weather system.
State-owned oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos said earlier Wednesday its three Gulf of Mexico ports -- Pajaritos alongside Dos Bocas and Cayo Arcas in Campeche state -- had closed because of the threat from Dolly.
Another port source at Coatzacoalcos, just four km (2.5 miles) from Pajaritos said the crude port had been closed since 0800 (1300 GMT) Wednesday. "The crude fleet is not moving," he said.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.The head of Hong Kong's only all-cargo airline AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd said he is applying for a licence to start flying to the South Korean capital, Seoul.
In an interview with Reuters, Stanley Hui, AHK's chief operating officer said he does not expect any problems in permission being granted.
He said he is initially considering a twice-weekly service combining with the carrier's current service to Osaka in Japan.
Seoul will also be a technical stop for AHK's new service to Chicago via Anchorage which starts on next Sunday, August 25
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd, which owns a 75 per cent stake in the cargo airline, has handed over the route to AHK as it is concentrating on stepping up its own cargo flights to New York.
AHK is taking delivery of three converted Boeing 747-200 Combi aircraft with 100 tons cargo capacity for the twice weekly service to Chicago. This will be increased to three times a week in mid-October,Hui added.
The airline also has a European service to Brussels and Manchester via Dubai.
Hui said the return flight from Chicago will refuel in Anchorage and Osaka in Japan. Seoul would be cheaper but it has a curfew while Osaka's Kansai airport is open 24 hours, he explained.
He added that Hong Kong's route granting body, the Air Transport Licensing Authority, will publish the Seoul licence application on Friday.
"We don't expect any problems and it should get through quite easily within a couple of weeks," he said. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017California-based, Polar Air Cargo said it will start a new service from Taipei and Singapore to San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Peter Hansen, Vice President Asia, told Reuters in an interview that the twice weekly service to the US west coast on Wednesday and Saturdays will start on September 11. The current service from Taipei and Singapore only has links to the U.S. east coast.
"One aircraft comes into Taipei from Karachi and Singapore with both Californian and east coast cargo on it. Another joins it in Taipei from Sydney in Australia. After swapping any cargo it then goes onto San Francisco and Los Angeles with links to Miami and South America, the other aircraft goes onto Chicago and the east coast," Hansen explained to Reuters.
The carrier said it is using traffic rights it has held for some time for the new service. As on all its services, the airline will use a Boeing 747 with 95 tonnes capacity. --Air Cargo Newsroom tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017Air cargo rates on European routes from Hong Kong are to be increased for the second time in as many months, AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd's chief operating officer, Stanley Hui told Reuters in an interview.
Eastbound routes from Europe will also see cargo rates raised "a little bit," he said.
AHK is the territory's all-cargo airline and 75 percent owned by Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.
Warning letters have already been sent to freight forwarders about a HK$2 per kilo rise from October 1, and the new rise follows informal talks with other cargo carriers operating out of Hong Kong, Hui said.
A HK$3 increase took effect on August I to try and boost revenue as airlines faced falling yields, rising competition and over-capacity, industry sources said.
"We are not trying to be greedy, just trying to get back to the original level at the start of the year. There has to be a rate increase or airlines will continue to lose money," Hui said.
He said there has been a 20 per cent drop in cargo selling rates over the past six months. At the end of last year the typical westbound cargo rate was HK$21 a kilo, recently this slumped to as low as HK$15, he added.
"With the rapid drop in cargo rates over the past six months it has been extremely difficult for any airline to make money. We have all suffered to various extent in the first half. I don't think any cargo airline has made money in the first of the year because of rapid decline in yields and if we can't make money with our cost structure, other passenger airlines must find it very difficult." Hui said.
He said another rate rise is unlikely to be popular but thinks there are the first signs of a recovery in the second half.
"There is a rebound in the second half starting with August. So far this month we have been doing very well in terms of tonnage. We have also managed to put in this two to three dollar rate increase and in general we have been very successful with it. Without the rate increase, airlines will continue to lose money," he added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)Yemen signed a memorandum of understanding with Britain's construction company Tarmac to upgrade the Aden refinery which was partly damaged during the 1994 civil war, an official said on Wednesday.
Tarmac "will now present a final financial and technical offer in the coming three months" to upgrade the 170,000 barrel per day (bpd) refinery in the southern Yemeni port city of Aden, the oil ministry official told Reuters.
The some 40-year-old refinery, the only one in Yemen, has a current output of 100,000 bpd.
The official said Tarmac and National Westminster Bank Plc executives came to Yemen last week to discuss the project and sign the memorandum.
Impoverished Yemen, a newcomer to the elite club of Arab oil exporters, has a daily output of 350,000 bpd.The reduction in pulp stocks and an expected increase in consumption should boost white eucalyptus pulp prices this year and in 1997, the president of Portuguese pulp group Portucel Industrial, Jorge Godinho, said.
"We expect the prices of pulp and paper to continue to rise until the end of 1996 and this should continue in 1997," Godinho told Reuters.
He said the sharp drop in pulp prices between the end of 1995 and the first half of 1996 would pave the way for a recovery in prices.
"The fall was so strong between the end of 1995 and the first half of this year that prices could not stay so low," Godinho said without giving specific forecasts.
Analysts quoted by Diario Economico paper said the price of white eucalyptus pulp could rise to 460 ecus per tonne at the end of 1996 from the present level of 420 ecus set on July 1.
-- Jose Barata, LIsbon newsroom +351-1-3538254Zimbabwean cargo airline Affretair said it will expand capacity substantially on its Europe flights this winter to cope with increasing horticultural exports.
Ingo Zimmer, managing director of the airline's Germany general sales agent ATC Aviation Services, said the three summer flights to Amsterdam will be increased to four from October and five from January.
"This is a massive upgrading in terms of space for the winter flower season," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The introduction of a new McDonnell Douglas DC-10 aircraft will ease capacity limitations with the airline's two Douglas DC-8s on northbound legs, in particular, he added.
From October, Affretair will fly a separate Thursday DC-8 Amsterdam-Lusaka service which will allow a DC-10 service to Harare and Johannesburg on the same day, Zimmer said.
The existing Monday Harare flight and Saturday service to Harare and Johannesburg using DC-8 aircraft will be maintained.
From January, when the flower season peaks, Affretair will fly DC-10 services to Harare on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays with extensions to Johannesburg on Thursdays and Saturdays.
Zimmer said distribution from Amsterdam through Germany is secured by direct trucking services to all major German airports.
Affretair horticulture sales manager Phil Clitchlow said in July the airline had not had enough capacity to cope with demand in the last few years.
The Zimbabwean Horticultural Promotion Council said in July it expects to export more than 48,000 tonnes of fresh-cut flowers and edible produce to Europe in the 1995/96 season. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish industrial investment group Incentive confirmed on Wednesday media reports that it was mulling the sale of its Hagglunds Vehicle unit, but added a decision was not imminent.
"It's not a new story, strategically the unit does not belong to our core business," Incentive spokesman Bengt Modeer told Reuters, adding that the company would now concentrate on developing businesses such as its wholly-owned drugs unit Gambro.
Modeer said Incentive was not in a hurry to dispose of the military vehicle operation but would wait for the right buyer and the right price.
"We want to sell to a good new owner, it doesn't matter whether it's Swedish or not, as long as our criteria are met," he said.
Incentive also plans to dispose of its 35 percent interest in U.S. brake component manufacturer Wabco acquired through the purchase of former investment group Cardo.
"It's a profitable and well-run company, but we came over the holding through the Cardo deal, which was just a way of getting at the Gambro holding," Modeer said.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006India's state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said it was proceeding with a proposed joint venture refinery on the west coast in partnership with Oman Oil Company.
"We have no advice from Oman Oil on reconsideration (of the project)," HPCL chairman H.L.Zutshi said when asked about reports in Indian media which said Oman Oil was reviewing its commitment to the joint venture.
"As far as we know, their interest in the refinery continues," Zutshi said. "They have already subscribed to a portion of their equity," he said.
M.N. Advani, managing director of Hindustan Oman Petroleum Company Ltd, HPCL's joint venture with Oman Oil, told Reuters that land acquisition for the refinery on the western coast was proceeding smoothly.
"We have full support of the Maharashtra government," he said. The proposed refinery is coming up at Deoghar on the Maharashtra coast.
The refinery will have a capacity to process six million tonnes of crude oil a year.
Zutshi said a preliminary feasibility report on another proposed joint venture refinery in partnership with Saudi Aramco Oil Company has been submitted to the Indian government for approval.
This refinery, also with a capacity to process six million tonnes of crude annually, is to come up in the northern state of Punjab.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000India's state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said it planned to build a liquified natural gas (LNG) facility in India in partnership with Total S.A. of France.
An HPCL official told Reuters a team of officials from both companies were looking for a suitable port-based location for the project.
She said the normal capacity for an LNG terminal was 2.5 million tonnes.
"We have signed an addendum to our earlier MOU (memorandum of understanding) with Total to include development of LNG projects," the official said.
HPCL and Total recently signed an MOU for floating joint ventures to build liquified petroleum gas (LPG) infrastructure and related facilities in India.
HPCL's new LPG import terminal at Mangalore with a capacity to handle 600,000 tonnes a year is scheduled to be commissioned next month, HPCL chairman H.L.Zutshi told reportes on Tuesday.
The company is also building LPG import facilities at the Vishakhapatnam outer harbour, Zutshi said.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000British gas industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday announced a softer stance in a crucial price review of British Gas, but a row between the two looked set to continue as the privatised utility it was disappointed by the level of concessions.
Ofgas wants British Gas pipeline operating company TransCo to cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average British domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
"We are confident that these final proposals offer TransCo a realistic target for the next price control period and an appropriate incentive to improve efficiency and earn reward. We hope British Gas will accept the proposals," said Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode.
But British Gas said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
When Ofgas made its initial proposals, which included price cuts of 20 to 28 percent in 1997/98 and five percent thereafter, British Gas said the regime could cost up to 10,000 jobs at TransCo.
Rogerson said the firm stood by that figure after Ofgas' latest plans, adding: "We see no reason to change our view on jobs."
The level of the potential job losses has raised concerns over safety at TransCo if the price review goes ahead at these levels.
However, Spottiswoode dismissed the idea and said that independent safety watchdog, the Health and Safety Executive, had found the assumptions underpinning her proposals would not hit safety.
If British Gas rejects the proposals, Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to Britain's competition authority, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
Spottiswoode also struck a tone that suggested Ofgas' position was firm, and an MMC referral likely.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC," she told Reuters.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Spottiswoode, has worried some investors. But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike.
"We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he added.
Shares in British Gas rose in initial response to the Ofgas statement but later eased back to show a gain of four pence at 202 after a high of 210. Dealers said much of Ofgas' concesssions had alredy been factored into the price. ($1=.6471 Pound)Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
The joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said.
These will then be incorporated into a final filing to the U.K. and U.S. governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.  
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, Harwood said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.
He summarised the five key issues under review as follows:
1 - What to do with the two carriers' existing freight products;
2 - How to reconcile and overcome the operating differences between the American and British product lines;
3 - How to share the revenue and profit attributable to the two companies' freight services;
4 - Customer service and booking procedures and how to create a seamless booking environment;
5 - Ways in which the partners can share their respective cargo automation and computing service.
The implementation team had undertaken a series of joint consultations before returning to their respective companies, to take decisions on the key issues, he said.
He added: "In essence, we have to decide between us which products will survive and which won't. British Airways tends to offer flight-specific freight products whereas American Airlines has a combination of flight-specific and time-definite products."
"Determining what to keep and what to eliminate are the decisions that have to be made," he said.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux is to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said on Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds on replacement trains over the next 10 years.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise... We are committed to spending 400 million pounds to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer".
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds.
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds.
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks. ($1=.6460 Pound)French utility and service group Generale des Eaux agreed a 15-year franchise contract with the British government on Wednesday, for its second regional passenger train operating company in the UK -- South Eastern.
The deal will involve the company's CGEA division spending 400 million stg on trains to replace old models over the next 10 years, with the first of them coming into service in 1999.
In a joint statement with Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF), the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million stg in the first year of the contract, falling to an average of 35.7 million stg over the 15 year term.  
In the final year, the operator has agreed it will pay the government a net contribution of 2.8 million stg.
This year, net of a pre-set profit element, the government is giving South Eastern a subsidy of 120.8 million stg. Colin Webster, chairman of CGEA operating unit Connex Rail Ltd, said in the statement, "We believe we can turn this operation into a model fanchise... we are committed to spending 400 million stg to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years with first new trains coming in in 1999".
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.  
Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman, said the new trains being planned would be air conditioned and offer lower density seating than the many ageing passenger trains currently used on South Eastern network across southern London and Kent. Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers, and rolling stock leasing companies, about orders for new trains but was also considering the option of forming a separate train owning company of its own from which South Eastern could then lease the units.
He said the company expected to have decided on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.  
Connex is committed to maintaing certain levels of service as well as seeking to meet higher standards of punctuality and reliability.
It will operate "at least the current number of train miles for the first three years of the franchise, with a number of service enhancements in the inner and outer suburban areas".
Connex also intends to spend 25 million stg on improvements to stations and services, including ticketing and car parks.
Webster said the franchise would be run "entirely separately" from the company's existing South Central franchise, although he saw some scope for cost savings.
Franchising director Roger Salmon welcomed the deal, calling it, "the largest rolling stock replacement programme so far by a franchisee."
Transport minister Sir George Young called the award a milestone in the franchsing programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, "over half the country's rail services (are) now awarded to the private sector".
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Industry regulator Ofags said on Wednesday it would make no further concessions in any more talks with British Gas on the price proposals announced earlier today for pipleine operator TransCo.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission)," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode told Reuters.  
"Obviously there are a lot of small things, so we will have further discussions, but I want them to agree or disagree with the basics," Spottiswoode said.
Ofgas said earlier it wanted TransCo to slice 20 percent off its charges to gas suppliers in the year from April 1997, which was at the bottom of the price cut initially proposed in May.
Ofgas main concession was in the price cuts for the following years, saying prices should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed earlier. "That is the result of going outside the asset base range and giving them some more money on operating expenditure," Spottiswoode said.  
Extra information provided by British Gas had prompted Ofgas to add 27 million stg a year on average to its projections of Ofgas' costs.
Ofgas also raised its regulatory asset figure to 11.7 billion stg from an initial range of nine to 11 billion stg.
"We wanted to make sure that we could...under any interpretation... not be accused of clawing back revenue that has already been allowed," Spottiswoode said.
British Gas has until October 7 to decide wether to accept or reject the final proposals. They will be referred to the MMC if rejected.
-- Hans de Jongh, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Utility British Gas Plc said on Wednesday that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject a proposed price review from industry regulator Ofgas.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters in an interview.
The review proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.  
The price curbs proposed are at the bottom of a previously announced range of possible cuts.
But Rogerson said he was disappointed at the review.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," he said.
At the time the review was first announced, British Gas said it could cost up to a possible 10,000 jobs at TransCo and Rogerson said the firm was standing by that figure in the light of Ofgas' latest plans.
"We see no reason to change our view on jobs," he said.  
Rogerson said the firm is still hoping Ofgas will adjust its review downwards in the talks that lie ahead.
"We shall continue talking to Ofgas as long as we think there is a useful point in doing so. We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals," he said.
If British Gas rejects the proposals Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC). Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.  
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Ofgas, and its director general Clare Spottiswoode, has worried some investors.
But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike. "We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823Qatar Airways expects to add another five destinations to its route network before the end of the year, bringing the total to 31, its chief executive said on Wednesday.
Speaking by telephone from Doha, Sheikh Hamad bin Ali bin Jabr al-Thani told Reuters the two-year-old airline would start once-weekly services to Sanaa in Yemen and Tehran in Iran in November.
"We also expect to announce Frankfurt and Moscow before the end of the year," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Morocco agreed to sell four mines, including a silver and copper mine, to the country's largest private conglomerate ONA Group for the equivalent of $75 million, Privatisation Minister Abderrahman Saaidi said.
"After we reached an agreement in principle...we decided to sell the four mines to the ONA Group at 648.8 million dirhams," Saaidi told Reuters on Wednesday.
Morocco launched an international tender in March to sell four mines -- silver, copper, fluorite, cobalt -- in one lot at a minimum price of 648.8 million dirhams.
It also offered to sell a foundry and a manganese mine in two separate tenders.
An official statement would be issued as soon as the "commission of transfer" put its stamp on the accord, Saaidi added.
The biggest mine is Societe Metallurgique d'Imiter (SMI), in which the state offered its majority 69 percent holding or 668,380 shares. It valued the stake at a minimum 448.9 million dirhams.
SMI, in southeast Morocco, has a capital of 96.7 million dirhams and produced 234 tonnes of silver in 1994 out of the country's total output of 259 tonnes.
Upline Securities stockbrokers said they had expected the ONA Group, which already has 31 percent of SMI and varying stakes in the other mines, to purchase the four mines.
"ONA's strategy in the mining sector culminated in 1992 when the company started operating the Guemassa mine, one of the world's lowest cost producing zinc mines. It merged all its mining participations in a holding company called Compagnie Miniere du Maroc, prior to the privatisation of the four mines," Anas Alami, an analyst at Upline Securities, said.
The other mines are copper producer Societe Miniere de Bou-Gaffer (SOMIFER), fluorite mining company Societe Anonyme d'Entreprise Miniere (SAMINE) and cobalt mine companie de Tifnout Tiranimine (CTT).
The state sold 40 percent of CTT, 35 percent of SAMINE and 34 percent of SOMIFER.
The latest available figures for 1994 showed that Morocco produced 36,010 tonnes of copper, of which SOMIFER accounted for 22,932 tonnes, and 85,000 tonnes of fluorite extracted entirely from the SAMINE mine. Manganese production was estimated at at 30,700 tonnes.
The mines were on a list of 114 state enterprises slated for privatisation by end 1998.
($1= 8.6 dirhams)
-- Ali Bouzerda, Rabat newsroom (212-7) 726518British Petroleum Co Plc subsidiary BP Oil Yemen Ltd and Yemen Petroleum Company have signed a deal giving BP the right to operate and manage Aden international airport's refuelling depot and facilities, BP said on Wednesday.
"This contract paves the way for investment by BP in new facilities at the airport which will qualify for benefits under the Yemeni investment laws of 1992. YPC will receive an annual royalty for the concession which is for a 20-year period," the BP statement sent to Reuters said.
It said the deal involves a "phased investment of up to $2 million."Subdued business during the long hot Arabian summer continues to take its toll on Dubai's air cargo market, with rates languishing at the year's lows.
Operators have resigned themselves to at least another month of lean margins, but:"In the next month and a half it should go back up," Air Express International's Emirates manager Paul Lattouf said.
"It probably won't improve until October, and even then there will still be the problem of severe overcapacity," another said.
"From Dubai it is now fairly quiet, as it usually is in July and August. A lot of decision makers are out of Dubai so whatever orders that have been placed, were placed a month or so ago," Lattouf added.
"The market is very dull and the competition between airlines intense. Some are selling at dead-cheap rates and they are not even collecting their aviation fuel charges," the Dubai cargo officer for a Far Eastern carrier said.
Trading activity in Dubai, the gateway to the Gulf and an important East-West trans-shipment point, traditionally eases during the summer holiday season.
But this year's slowdown has been exacerbated by shrinking sea-air business from the Indian subcontinent and the Far East.
The airport said sea-air freight volumes fell a year-on-year 8.6 percent in July to 5,012 tonnes -- the fourth successive year-on-year fall so far in 1996. It follows drops of 34.7 percent in April, 17.7 percent in May and 3.3 percent in June.
Sea-air freight has always been an important part of air cargo shipments out of Dubai. Goods are brought in bulk by sea and are then broken down into smaller packages and sent by air mainly to Europe and the United States.
But operators say this business has come under pressure in the past few months. Air freight rates in the Far East and Indian subcontinent have eased, prompting shippers to send their goods directly by air, rather than use sea-air, they say.
"The re-export side is down and lots of lower ad-hoc rates are being offered," said a forwarder.
"Some airlines are going empty because the rates are so low," another said of the many carriers which make a technical stop in Dubai en route between Europe and the Far East, and try to fill any available space with cargo from Dubai.
"To London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam we are going as low as three or up to a maximum of 3.50 dirhams a kg, but some are going down to 2.20-2.50," one airline cargo manager said.
Reuters' calculations put the average rate on a 100 kg shipment with a six-to-one volume-to-weight ratio to London Heathrow down three fils on a month earlier at 3.57 dirhams.
Before then, the average rate had been static at 3.60 since the Reuter June 7 ex-Dubai market report.
Mirroring the slip to London, the average rate to Frankfurt is also down at 3.57 dirhams from 3.60.
Volumes to the United States are still slim with rates on the route out of Dubai sticking around the levels seen in the past few months.
The average rate to JKF is at 5.80 dirhams a kg and the rate to Los Angeles is also unchanged at an average 6.60.
"Over 500 kg we are offering 5.30 to New York," a cargo officer at a large Gulf-based carrier said.
With business to the Far East continuing slow, the average rates to Singapore and Hong Kong are flat at last month's 3.90.
"We don't really change those rates because demand is always thin," said a forwarder.
Similarly, to Nairobi the average rate on a 100 kg shipment is keeping within its established 3.90-3.95 band, at 3.93 dirhams a kg on August 21.
-- Dubai newsroom +9714-626990Consolidated Statement of Operations
			    Three Months Ended     Six Months Ended
				   June 30		    June 30
 Unaudited ($000s)	   1996	1995	1996	1995
Revenue
Oil and gas sales,
   net of royalties	20,746    16,292    38,293    33,062
  Pipeline and facility     863	 615     1,889     1,752
Equity interest in
   pipeline operations	114	 260	 320	 510
				 21,723    17,167    40,502    35,324
Expenses
  Production		  7,329     5,830    14,050    11,295
General and
   administrative	   1,672     1,349     2,830     2,761
Interest and
   bank charges		 832	 367     1,873	 700
Depletion and
   depreciation	     8,008     5,928    15,118    11,906
				 17,841    13,474    33,871    26,662
 Net Income Before Tax    3,882     3,693     6,631     8,662
Income Taxes
  Current			 600	 409	 991	 777
  Deferred		    1,374     1,600     2,224     3,700
Net Income for
  the Period		  1,908     1,684     3,416     4,185
Cash Flow from
  Operations		 11,294     9,071    20,675    19,519
			     Financial and Operating Results
Per Share Data
  Net Income - basic	 0.08	0.09	0.15	0.21
		 - fully
		   diluted     0.08	0.08	0.15	0.20
  Cash flow  - basic	 0.49	0.45	0.93	0.97
		 - fully
		   diluted     0.44	0.39	0.83	0.84
Common Shares
  Outstanding (000's)    23,073    20,274    23,073    20,274
Weighted Average
   (000's)		   22,223    20,126    22,223    20,126
Capital Expenditures
  (Net)			16,406    12,417    48,731    24,776
Production
  Crude Oil (bbl/day)    12,774    10,008    11,925     9,932
  Natural Gas (mcf/d)    19,738    18,055    21,584    19,395
Prices
  Crude Oil ($/bbl)	 21.94     19.86     19.80     19.28
  Natural Gas ($/mcf)	1.28	1.12	1.35	1.30
Operating Expenses
Barrel of oil
   equivalent ($/boe)	5.36	5.23	5.36	5.07
					Condensed Balance Sheet
 As at	     As at
						Jun 30	     Dec 31
 Unaudited ($000s)			 1996		  1995
Assets
  Current Assets			  21,399	     22,106
  Investments				7,508		7,458
  Property Plant & Equipment	 214,396	    180,516
					     243,303	    210,080
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
 Current Liabilities		    21,177	     30,069
 Long Term Debt			   56,455	     46,521
 Deferred Charges			 23,519	     21,304
Shareholders' Equity
 Common Shares			   115,971	     89,421
 Retained Earnings			26,181	     22,765
					     142,152	    112,186
					     243,303	    210,080
CS Resources Limited is a Calgary-based petroleum company with operations focused in the western Canada sedimentary basin.  The Company's common shares are listed for trading on the Montreal Exchange and The Toronto Stock Exchange.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100The newspapers that belong to the Canadian Press news co-operative have agreed to stay within the agency, Canadian Press said on Wednesday.
CP also said president David Jolley has resigned effective immediately, after seven months on board.
Michael Sifton, chairman of Hollinger Inc unit Sterling Newspapers, will become chairman of CP. Jim Poling, the news agency's vice-president of editorial, will be general manager while CP restructures, the agency said.
Former Southam executive Jim Armitage will work as a consultant, CP said.  
CP said Sifton told employees at the agency's head office in Toronto Tuesday morning that the moves by the board "set the stage for a renewed Canadian Press."
The future of the venerable news agency was cast into doubt earlier this summer when Southam Inc, the largest of CP's 88 members, said it planned to pull out of the co-operative by the end of 1996.
CP's other members were forced to issue notices echoing Southam's because the structure of the organization means that members who remain are liable for all the common expenses when others withdraw.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Hydro-Quebec said on Wednesday that it agreed with Nordion International Inc, a unit of MDS Health Group Ltd, for the production of cobalt 60 at its Gentilly-2 nuclear power station.
The five-year agreement, which runs from 1997 to 2002, provides for the production of between 15 and 20 million curies of cobalt 60 and will generate millions of dollars a year in revenues for Hydro-Quebec, the Quebec government-owned utility said.
A previous five-year agreement with Nordion (1985-1989) for the production of 18 million curries of cobalt 60 had not been renewed because of an oversupply situation. Cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt 59 that results from the irradiation of cobalt 59 in a nuclear reactor. The production of cobalt 60 has no effect on the output or safety of the reactor, Hydro-Quebec said.
Cobalt 60 is used for treating cancer, sterilizing medical and surgical products, preserving food, combating food-borne illness and decontaminating waste. Nordion supplies more than 80 percent of the global demand for cobalt 60, Hydro-Quebec said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Coastal Resources Ltd said on Wednesday it reached an agreement with the board of directors of Canadian Jorex Ltd whereby the board will recommend Jorex shareholders accept an offer from Coastal to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Jorex for cash at a price of C$0.68 per share.
Coastal, a private, Calgary-based oil and gas company, said the offer will remain open until September 12 and is conditional upon at least two-thirds of the outstanding Jorex shares being tendered under the offer.
It said it will fund the acquisition of the Jorex shares through cash on hand and existing lines of credit.
The Coastal offer represents an eight-percent premium to the previously announced cash offer of C$0.63 a share by Cypress Energy Inc and a 26-percent premium to the closing price of C$0.54 on July 8, the date prior to Cypress announcing its offer.
Coastal said a major Jorex shareholder, representing about 53.1 percent of the fully diluted outstanding shares, has agreed to tender its shares under Coastal's offer, subject to the right of Cypress to match Coastal's offer.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.60		   C$0.73
 Net			 27,400		   32,500
 Revs		     932,000		  974,000
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$O.89		   C$1.09
 Net			 41,800		   49,800
 Revs		   1,900,000		2,000,000
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Desjardins-Laurentian Financial Corp. Year earlier quarter includes net profit from continuing operations of C$16.3 million or C$0.34 per share, while year earlier six months includes net profit from continuing operations of C$32 million or C$0.65 a share.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Shares in Newbridge Networks Corp soared on Wednesday after the company laid to rest lingering investor fears with a solid first quarter report.
The company's first quarter earnings of C$0.70 or US$0.51 a share beat consensus estimates by two U.S. cents. This proved last month's first quarter warnings from two U.S. analysts unjustified, analysts said.
"The numbers were not just good...but more importantly, you see sequential and year-over-year order growth in ATM (asynchronous transfer mode), in frame (relay) and in TDM (time division multiplexing)," said analyst Robert MacLellan.  
"It's a quarter that if you were a bear on Newbridge, you would have a very hard time finding anything to complain about. It all looked great," MacLellan added.
The stock spiked 8.45 to 75.00 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and 6-1/2 to 54-7/8 on Wall Street.
Analysts' warnings about the quarter from UBS Securities and Needham & Co in July sent the stock diving. It has been in recovery mode recently with other brokerages issuing reassuring reports ahead of the earnings release.
"The numbers were very solid," said one portfolio manager who declined to be identified.  
"No matter how you slice and dice them, there're no tricks, no smoke, no mirrors. They don't just look good, they are good," the portfolio manager said.
The stock has fallen from a year peak of 102 in May to below 57 in Toronto in late July after the first caution.
Newbridge said Tuesday it is on track for another strong year. The company, which manufactures networking equipment, also on Tuesday said it planned to renew its normal course issuer bid. Under the renewed bid, Newbridge will have the right to purchase four million, or about 4.7 percent, of its common shares during the next 12 months.  
JP Morgan said analyst William Rabin upgraded shares of Newbridge Networks Corp to buy from market performer and raised earnings estimates to US$2.22 per share from US$2 for fiscal 1997 ending April 30.
He also increased his 1998 forecast to US$2.76 from US$2.40 for 1998.
-- Sarah Edmonds, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100, E-mail sarah.edmonds@reuters.com1996			    1995
 Shr			 C$0.64		   C$0.53
 Net			 16,651		   13,332
 Revs			95,232		   64,325
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.69		   C$0.88
 Net			 18,831		   21,891
 Revs		     150,924		  137,473
 Avg shrs		  23,093		   21,439
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Golden Knight Resources Inc said its shareholders voted at an extraordinary general meeting yesterday 99 percent in favor of increasing the authorized capital of the company.
It said a special resolution was approved creating 80 million additional common shares without par value, resulting in a total authorized capital of 100 million common shares.
Golden Knight said the increased capitalization will enable the company to proceed with the recently announced acquisition of an additional 12.5 percent of Gold Fields Ghana Ltd and the financing required for the transaction.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100MDS Health Group Ltd said it signed agreements to acquire Nebraska-based Harris Laboratories Inc and Montreal-based Neo-Pharm Laboratories Inc, which will more than double MDS's revenue from pharmaceutical services to about C$100 million a year.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
MDS said the acquired companies will be integrated with the existing international contract research operations of MDS and managed through newly formed MDS Pharmaceuticals Service, with operations in Canada, Germany, China, Taiwan, the United States and Britain.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Scott Paper Ltd said on Wednesday that it reached an agreement in principle with Kimberly-Clark Corp regarding trademark and technology licensing and transition issues.
Once formalized, this deal will give Scott Paper Ltd access for 10 years to most of the brands and technology it has licensed from Kimberly-Clark Tissue Co, formerly known as Scott Paper Co (U.S.).
Scott Paper Ltd will also be granted the time and flexibility to transition those brands which will be returned to Kimberly-Clark earlier than in 10 years.
On April 18, Kimberly-Clark announced it planned to sell its 50.1 percent stake in Scott Paper Ltd.
Scott Paper Ltd and its advisers will therefore now seek a purchaser willing to make an offer for 100 percent of the company, Scott Paper Ltd said.
"I am delighted to announce we have an agreement-in-principle on the most significant business issue which arose out of the acquisition of Scott Paper Co by Kimberly-Clark Corp in December 1995," Lee Griffith, president & chief executive of Scott Paper, said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.17		     $0.17
 Pay		     Nov 1
 Record		 Oct 15
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.28		    $0.21
 Net			    916			684
 Revs			21,623		   15,454
 Avg shrs		   3,270		    3,185
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Full name is Engineered Support Systems Inc.  
		     NINE MONTHS
 Shr			  $0.65		    $0.51
 Net			  2,119		    1,689
 Revs			57,594		   48,453
 Avg shrs		   3,250		    3,325
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		$0.4125		   $0.4125
 Pay		   Sept 15
 Record		 Sept 3
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.305		    $0.305
 Pay		    Oct 11
 Record		Sept 27
Note: Full name of company is Manufactured Home Communities Inc.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Years ended June 30,
							 1996	   1995
 Interest income			   $   42,038    $	 --
Expenses:
    General and administration	  1,218,674     1,193,285
    Research and development		991,701	 503,375
    Minimum royality expense		125,000	 175,000
    Financing				   103,626	 198,632
	    Total expenses		  2,439,001     2,070,292
 Loss before income taxes	     (2,396,963)   (2,070,292)
 Net loss				   (2,396,963)   (2,070,292)
 Loss per common share			  (.07)	   (.31)
Weighted average common shares
    outstanding			    31,991,150     6,786,986
NOTE: Fiscal fourth quarter results were not available.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Celox Laboratories Inc said Wednesday it recently received a notice of allowance from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for a patent covering ViaStem, its bone marrow transplantation product.
The company said it expects to receive the patent within the next two months.
ViaStem was developed to improve the storage of stem cells from bone marrow or peripheral blood while a patient receives chemotherapy and/or radiation treatment for immunologic disorders or malignant disease.
It added that ViaStem could potentially be used in other clinical situations including preservation of umbilical cord blood and platelets.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.23		    $0.19
 Net			  8,010		    6,703
 Revs			78,966		   68,216
 Avg shrs		  35,171		   34,779
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Three months ended  Nine months ended
				     1996     1995	1996     1995
 Net sales		     $86,169 $74,362  $219,125 $195,545
 Cost of sales		  60,752  51,805   155,601  137,412
Selling, general and
   administrative expense   18,217  14,975    49,934   43,350
 Operating income		6,972   7,366    12,920   14,137
Income from continuing
   operations		    3,937   4,249     6,901    7,843
Income from discontinued operation,
    net of tax			--     187	  --	653
 Net income			3,937   4,436     6,901    8,496
Per share:
Income from continuing
     operations		   0.36    0.39	0.63     0.71
Income (loss) from
     discontinued operations  0.00    0.02	0.00     0.06
 Net income			 0.36    0.40	0.63     0.77
 Weighted shrs outstanding  10,994  11,006    10,990   11,048
NOTE: Sum of Q3 1995 continuing and discontinued operating income greater than net income due to rounding.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Energen Corp said on Wednesday that its oil and gas exploration and production subsidiary, Taurus Exploration Inc, retains sole ownership of the estimated 100 billion cubic feet of coalbed methane reserves recently purchased from Burlington Resources Inc.
Energen said that neither of Taurus's eligible coalbed methane partners elected to participate in the acquisition, as provided for under the terms of two area of mutual interest agreements.  
An Energen spokeswoman told Reuters that the two eligible partners were subsidiaries of TECO Energy Inc and Chevron Corp.Northwest Airlines will offer the maximum number of trans-pacific freighter rotations - 19 round trips per week - for the autumn cargo peak, airline spokesman Doug Killian said.
The 19 round trips are unchanged from last year's fall-winter schedule and the current summer schedule, he told Reuters in a telephone interviews added.
Normally, the airline would have at least one of its eight Boeing 747 freighters out of service during the summer for scheduled maintenance, but was able to keep all eight flying this year, he said.
"The market is looking good," he said.
The 1996-97 winter schedule includes a freighter service to Osaka's Kansai International Airport, inaugurated for the summer schedule, said Killian.
Northwest will serve Kansai twice weekly westbound from the U.S. and five times weekly eastbound to the U.S. as part of through flights to/from Tokyo, Hong Kong and Taipei.
Northwest's freighter gateways in the U.S. include New York, San Francisco, Minneapolis, Columbus (Ohio), Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles. All flights refuel in Anchorage.
In Asia, Northwest's freighters serve Osaka, Tokyo, Seoul, Taipei, Hong Kong, Bangkok and Singapore.
Killian also said the airline will have significantly more belly cargo space on passenger flights to Beijing, now that it has started a non-stop Detroit-Beijing service.
Northwest will operate six passenger flights weekly to Beijing, including three operating on a Los Angeles-Tokyo-Beijing routing, said Killian.
Beijing is a very solid cargo market in both directions, he said.
"There is a lot of high-yielding freight, a lot of manufactured goods and textiles moving from China to North America and a lot of high-tech equipment moving particularly from Florida and Texas to China on our flights to Beijing."
Killian said there is also a large livestock trade developing from the U.S. to China, but that moves on freighters, and Northwest will unable be able to put a freighter into China until at least 1998. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017H&R Block Inc, which offers tax and financial services, said its loss for the fiscal first quarter was due to anticipated increases in expenses associated with compensation, rent and utilities.
Incremental operating costs and amortization of goodwill from tax businesses acquired in fiscal 1996 also increased expenses for the quarter.
H&R Block reported a net loss from continuing operations of $0.27 a share. A year ago, it had a net loss from continuing operations of $0.20 a share, which included a one-time gain realized on the MECA Software Inc sale and the write-down of certain impaired assets.
H&R Block said its tax services business typically reports losses in the first three quarters. "While most of the revenues for the tax business are generated in the fourth quarter, certain expenses remain year round," Frank Salizzoni, interim president, said in a statement.
Revenues from H&R Block Tax Services' U.S. operations rose nearly 22 percent to $9.6 million in the quarter. Revenues from international tax operations increased more than 29 percent to $2.7 million. Revenues for Block Financial Corp increased nearly 31 percent to $8.2 million.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Freight forwarders still object to key elements of new U.S. air cargo security rules, the U.S. Airforwarders Association executive director James Foster said.
Foster told Reuters in a telephone interview that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had made some changes in recent days but did not satisfy the forwarders' principal objections.
The FAA said on Tuesday that it would implement the new rules on August 28, 12 days later than originally planned.
The rules, a response to the ValuJet and TWA tragedies, were set to take effect originally on August 16, but the FAA suspended their implementation amid a barrage of criticism from forwarders, consolidators and shippers.
The cargo community said the new rules created an additional paperwork burden, would slow the flow of cargo and would not appreciably improve security.
"They have made a few changes, but the paperwork objection still stands as well as the objection to the wording," said Foster.
The regulations specify that shippers must produce two pieces of photo identification when making a shipment and certify in writing that it does not contain explosives or destructive or dangerous materials.
The documentation must be kept on file by the forwarder or carrier until after the safe arrival of the shipment at its final destination.
Many shippers and forwarders have denounced this as excessively bureaucratic, says Foster.
"It doesn't really seem to serve a purpose," he said. "It is fairly objectionable to the shipper the way things are worded."
He said many forwarders believe the existing security measures are sufficient to protect the commercial air cargo stream.
"We feel this was an over-reaction to circumstances that really haven't been shown to have anything to do with commercial cargo."
Under existing U.S. security rules, freight forwarders can accept shipments only from known companies. Forwarders and shippers say it is unlikely that the additional requirement for photo ID will stop a terrorist, only leave a longer paper trail for investigators to follow after a tragedy.
Foster said there also is a concern that the new rules will slow processing of air freight.
"When you slow it down, you reduce the value in shipping by air," he added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Air Atlantic, a predominantly cargo carrier based on Spain's Canary Islands, is planning to expand its fleet and begin regular passenger services, its director Eduardo Gomez said on Wednesday.
The company operates three Fairchild Metros and intends to acquire a fourth, Gomez told Reuters.
It already has agreements with tour operators to run regular inter-island services, likely to start next month, and further ahead would like to increase its links with neighbouring Morocco.
Technically these are charter flights but they will be at regular times and tickets will undercut those of Iberia's regional subsidiary Binter by 10 or 15 percent, Gomez said.
The privately-owned company's business is now 75 percent regional cargo, typically imports of Moroccan shellfish or mail and medicines moving between the islands.
Its aircraft can carry 19 passengers or up to 2.3 tonnes of cargo each and are now performing around 16 flights a day between them. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Austria's blue-chip insurer Wiener Staedtische Allgemeine Versicherung AG said on Wednesday it had launched insurance services in neighbouring southern Germany as part of its European expansion programme.
The company said it would intitially focus on products which were cheaper than those already available in Germany or which did not yet exist in the form offered by Wiener Staedtische.
Among the services mentioned were private pensions, accident and home-owner's insurance.
"We certainly won't be moving into the mass market of automobile insurance," Wiener Staedtische director Hans Raumauf told Reuters.
Raumauf declined to comment on the projected insurance premium volume.
The company said sales would be managed by independent agents and agencies, adding it was not yet planning its own local sales for financial reasons. -- Vienna newsroom +43 1 531-12-257An average of analysts' forecasts predicts that Denmark's Den Danske Bank will report a 28 percent drop in profits when it publishes first half 1996 results on Thursday.
Seven analysts polled by Reuters predicted an ordinary pre-tax result of between 1.25 and 2.25 billion crowns, giving an average of 1.835 billion, compared to 2,537 billion in the first half of 1995.
Those at the lower end of the widely-divergent range of forecasts said they expected the bank's earnings from securities and foreign exchange dealings to fall by two-thirds.
They predicted earnings of 300 million crowns, compared to 906 million during the first half of 1995.
The most optimistic forecast still had forex and stock earnings down, to 775 million crowns. The average was 480 million.
--Ole Mikkelsen, Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650An investment fund bought just over 3.6 percent of Portuguese construction firm Somague-SGPS in pre-trade on the Lisbon bourse, a company spokesman said.
"A fund bought 400,000 shares in Somague. I won't say if it was a national or a foreign fund," Somague's vice president Diogo Vaz Guedes told Reuters.
Somague stood unchanged at 1,100 escudos in volume of 450,200 shares on Lisbon bourse at 0955 GMT.
"Institutional investors are very interested in Somague, and today's operation shows that the market recognised the results of our restructuring and once again considers that we are a big player in Portuguese construction," Vaz Guedes said.
-- Jose Barata, Lisbon newsroom +351-1-3538254French retailer Promodes expects its first-half net attributable profit to be higher despite lower operating profits, a company executive said on Wednesday.
Finance executive Alexandre Roeser told Reuters the company reaffirmed its forecast for an increase of between 10-15 percent in the full-year 1996 net attributable profit.
"The forecasts of higher consolidated profits for the 1996 year, as made at an analysts' meeting in May, are not in question," he said.
Promodes expects its operating profit for the first six months to be lower compared to a year ago, but financial results and exceptional gains will allow the group to offset that and post a higher net attributable result than the comparable 1995 period.
It posted 288 million francs net attributable profit in the first half 1995. It made 1996 first-half sales of 49.38 billion francs.  
Promodes is due to announce its first-half profit on September 10. It posted 1995 net attributable profit of 1.02 billion francs.
It expects a consumer recovery and customer promotions in the second half to boost net attributable profit for the year, although it could not estimate by how much.
Promodes shares cut their losses after the forecast and were down six francs at 1,210, or 0.49 percent, at 1047 GMT, after hitting a day-low of 1,171. The wider market was down 0.72 percent.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452 nm/pntLower than expected first half profits at Swiss banking group CS Holding underscore the urgency of huge restructuring plans announced by the conglomerate in July, analysts said.
Analysts said net profit for the first six months, which increased 20 percent after minority interests, was below most expectations. Costs grew more strongly than widely forecast.
But several analysts also said the quality of CS profits was increasing and added that the group had greater potential than rivals Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) or Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) because it was restructuring later.  
Market forecasts of net profit had ranged between 879 million and 1.104 billion Swiss francs, compared to the group's 830 million after minority interests.
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," said banking analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively high at CS Holding than at the others," he told Reuters.
CS Holding's total operating expenses rose 17 percent, which it said was mainly due to incentive bonuses paid to staff.  
John Leonard from Salomon Bros in London said he was puzzled that staff bonuses had risen so strongly.
CS Holding said incentive pay comprised 400 million Swiss francs of an overall increase in staff costs of 498 million, or 21 percent, to 2.86 billion Swiss francs.
"I know incentive payments increase generally as revenues grow. But it was a real source of suprise that the accruals for incentive compensation rose so strongly," he said.
"Total costs were a couple of hundred million (Swiss francs) more than I expected," Leonard added.  
Leonard said the cost ratio at CS Holding was 67.4 percent including depreciation, as against 69 percent a year earlier.
By comparison, SBC had a cost ratio with depreciation of 68.4 percent in the first half of this year and UBS posted 61.5.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research, who had forecast net profit growth higher at 28 percent, said it was positive that commission income now made up 38 percent of all earnings from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
Kalbermatten said potential costs savings and earnings growth had alrady been tapped at least in part by CS's rivals.
UBS has spent several years streamlining its activities and SBC, which last year integrated investment banking arm SBC Warburg, in May announced a reorganisation along four core business lines.
Kalbermattern said he would maintain his estimates for CS Holding 1996 full-year net profit of 1.6 billion or 8.50 Swiss francs earnings per share and for 1997 of 2.07 billion or 10.90 per share. He maintains CS and SBC as buy ratings.
Salomon's Leonard said he would likely lower his EPS estimates from 8.96 Swiss francs this year and 10.40 in 1997. CS Holding would remain a hold alongside SBC and UBS, with SBC favoured.
Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank also said he would lower his 1996 full-year forecast for CS Holding from net profit of 1.619 billion and an EPS of 8.40.
Bieri said he would likley downgrade CS Holding from buy to hold. UBS is a hold and SBC a buy in his ratings.
-- Marcus Kabel, Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340Comalco Ltd on Wednesday confirmed it was in early stage talks with Canada's Noranda Inc to build an aluminium smelter in Southern Chile.
"All we're really doing is having discussions in terms of feasibility of an aluminium smelter project in Chile," a Comalco spokeswoman told Reuters.Mobil Corp's Australian unit said on Wednesday its 108,000 barrels per day oil refinery in Melbourne was operating at 80 percent of normal output following the repair of its cracking unit.  
"The cracker is up and running," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
She said the refinery was expected to return to normal output by the middle of next week, pending the repair of one of three crude oil distillation units at the site.
The refinery's cracker, which was shut down eight days ago for repairs, extracts gas, gasoline, diesel and LPG products after the crude distillation process.
The Mobil spokeswoman said the refinery was still taking 100 percent Gippsland crude input instead of its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.  
Gippsland crude is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.
She declined to comment on the refinery's current crude oil intake.
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery ordinarily took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude, representing half of its total normal crude oil intake.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435The following table provides the latest results of Intech Asset Consulting Pty's domestic and international asset allocation survey of 36 fund managers, in asset-weighted terms, as at July 31.
Reuters carries the monthly asset allocation survey on the 21st of each month, or the first working weekday after the 21st. (Asset-weighted averages expressed in percentage terms)
			 Domestic Allocation
---------------------------------------------------------------
------Equities----- ---Bonds----  Cash  --Property-- Venture
    Total Indust. Res. Nominal/Index	Direct/Listed Capital
---------------------------------------------------------------
Jul  36.0  23.5  12.5   16.7  4.0    8.2    6.6   4.2     1.1
Jun  36.9  23.8  13.1   16.4  3.9    7.5    6.3   4.2     1.1
May  37.2  23.4  13.8   16.6  3.9    7.2    6.2   3.9     1.2
Apr  37.9  23.6  14.3   15.9  3.5    6.8    6.9   3.8     1.0
Mar  37.6  23.7  13.9   15.8  3.5    6.7    7.5   3.6     1.0
Feb  38.1  24.5  13.6   16.4  4.0    5.6    6.6   4.1     1.1
Jan  38.4  24.9  13.5   16.1  4.0    5.2    6.7   4.0     1.1
Dec  38.6  24.7  13.9   16.0  4.0    5.3    6.8   3.9     1.1
Nov  38.7  24.9  13.8   16.3  3.9    5.0    6.9   3.8     1.2
Oct  38.5  24.9  13.6   16.4  3.9    5.5    7.1   3.8     1.2
Sep  39.2  25.2  14.0   16.4  3.4    5.0    8.0   3.4     1.0
Aug  39.5  25.1  14.4   17.0  3.4    4.5    8.1   3.3     1.1
Jul  38.8  24.8  14.0   16.9  3.4    4.9    8.1   3.2     1.1
Jun  37.6  24.7  12.9   18.2  3.5    4.5    8.1   3.2     1.1
May  37.5  24.7  12.8   18.2  3.6    4.6    8.2   3.2     1.0
Apr  38.0  24.7  13.3   18.7  3.4    5.4    8.1   3.1     1.1
Mar  37.2  24.6  12.6   19.7  3.4    5.0    8.2   3.1     1.1
Feb  37.6  24.5  13.1   19.2  3.4    5.3    7.9   3.4     1.1
			    Year Averages
1995 38.2  24.7  13.5   17.7  3.5    5.2    7.8   3.4     1.1
1994 38.2  25.0  13.2   16.6  3.5    6.6    6.5   3.1     1.1
1993 37.7  25.6  12.1   18.1  2.8    3.8    5.9   2.6     1.3
1992 36.6  23.8  12.8   20.9  0.2    4.5    7.6   2.3     1.6
1991 34.9  22.8  12.1   19.0  0.0    6.9    9.9   2.3     1.8
1990 30.8  18.8  12.0   21.0  N/A   12.6  11.8    2.6     2.0
		    International Allocation
---------------------------------------------------------------
	   Equities	Bonds     Cash	Property
---------------------------------------------------------------
    Jul   17.9	   4.5	 0.4	   0.3
    Jun   18.3	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    May   18.6	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    Apr   18.9	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    Mar   19.6	   4.2	 0.3	   0.2
    Feb   19.3	   4.4	 0.1	   0.3
    Jan   19.6	   4.7	 0.1	   0.3
    Dec   19.3	   4.7	-0.1	   0.3
    Nov   19.2	   4.7	-0.1	   0.3
    Oct   18.6	   4.6	 N/A	   0.3
    Sep   19.2	   4.0	 0.1	   0.3
    Aug   18.7	   4.0	 0.1	   0.3
    Jul   19.1	   3.8	 0.2	   0.3
    Jun   18.9	   4.3	 0.4	   0.3
    May   18.6	   4.4	 0.3	   0.3
    Apr   17.9	   4.0	 0.3	   0.3
    Mar   18.0	   4.0	 N/A	   0.3
    Feb   17.1	   4.7	 N/A	   0.3
    Jan   16.9	   3.7	 0.1	   0.3
			 Year Averages
    1995  18.5	   4.2	 N/A	   0.3
    1994  18.7	   5.3	 0.1	   0.3
    1993  19.0	   8.2	 0.1	   0.4
    1992  18.8	   6.9	 0.3	   0.3
    1991  18.3	   6.1	 0.5	   0.3
    1990  14.7	   3.1	 1.1	   0.2
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373 1800Woodside Petroleum Ltd said on Wednesday repair work would cause crude oil production from its Cossack offshore operation to be reduced by more than half to about 50,000 barrels a day for three weeks in September.  
The curtailment in output would result from the shutdown of the operation's gas export system, a Woodside spokesman told Reuters.
The spokesman said the operation had been mostly producing crude oil at or above its rated capacity of 115,000 barrels a day in recent weeks.
"We're looking at a three-week shut down of the gas export system in September... during that period oil production would probably have to be cutback to around 50,000 barrels a day," the spokesman said. "There is no reason why between now and September we can't maintain full production," he said.  
"We are at the moment capable of maintaining full production," he added
In order to prolong the life of a new dehydration component of the vessel, the repair work is required to rectify faults causing an excess moisture problem, the spokesman said.
"When you shut down the gas export system it means that we have to flare any gas that comes up associated with the oil. Because of limitations on the amount of gas we can flare, we have to reduce oil production accordingly," the spokesman said.  
The joint venture partners in the operation are currently reviewing the repair work, which is likely to occur in the last three weeks of September, the spokesman said.
"We could carry on with constant interuptions to the system, but it's much better to bite the bullet and try and rectify the problem completely," he said.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside, Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.  
Woodside shares were 2.0 cents up at A$7.72 by 1.25 p.m. (0325 GMT).
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Indonesia's PT Inti Indorayon Utama said on Wednesday it was considering acquiring the chemical assets of PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper and selling Indorayon's power plants to boost efficiency after a recent weak performance.
"We are considering acquiring the chemical assets of Riau Andalan and selling the power plants of Indorayon in an effort to increase efficiency," corporate secretary P. Daritan told Reuters.
Inti Indorayon and Riau Andalan belong to New York-listed Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) which has its administrative office in Singapore.
Daritan said the firm expected the purchase of the chemical assets, used in the production of pulp and paper, to strengthen its chemical division.
He said the plans were expected to materialise next year, but declined to give further details, saying Indorayon was still calculating the figures.
The efficiency effort was neccessary following the firm's weak 1996 first-half results, he said.Indonesia's PT Inti Indorayon Utama said on Wednesday it was considering acquiring the chemical assets of PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper and selling its power plants to increase efficiency following recent weak performance.
"We are considering acquiring the chemical assets of Riau Andalan and selling the power plants of Indorayon in an effort to increase efficiency," corporate secretary P. Daritan told Reuters.
Both Inti Indorayon and Riau Andalan belong to New York-listed Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) which has its administrative office in Singapore.  
Daritan said the firm expected the purchase of the chemical assets, used in the production of pulp and paper, to strengthen its chemical division.
He said the plans were expected to materialise next year, but declined to give further details saying Indorayon was still calculating the figures.
The effeciency effort was neccessary following the firm's weak 1996 first six months results, he said.
Indorayon posted a net loss of 18.71 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against a net profit of 89.25 billion rupiah in the same period last year.
It has an annual capacity of 60,000 tonnes of rayon fibre.Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.Telecommunications giant Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT) is firming up plans to restructure rates to eliminate the cross-subsidy between international and domestic long distance rates, Edgardo del Fonso, PLDT's chief finance officer, said on Wednesday.
"We plan to restructure rates so each segment of the business is viable on its own, Del Fonso told Reuters.
PLDT intends to submit its proposal to the government's National Telecommunciations Commission before the end of the year, he said, adding that the implementation of the restructured rates could coincide with the planned metering of local calls in the first or second quarter of next year.  
"We think that this is the best scenario for the industry. New entrants are not very keen to lay out lines" because of the low rates for national long distance calls versus overseas calls, Del Fonso said.
PLDT's average revenue is 2.10 pesos (8 cents) per minute on national long distance calls but $1.70 per minute on calls to the U.S., which comprise 35 percent of its overseas revenues.
In the first half of 1996, international long distance calls accounted for 58.8 percent of PLDT's revenues, while national long distance calls made up 14.5 percent.
Because of this, the competition is keen on getting a slice of the market for international calls, Del Fonso said.
"We're vulnerable to international calls. It is the source of subsidy for our local exchange, which is being eroded by the competition and the reduction in accounting rates," the PLDT official said.
The accounting rates refer to the share in revenues of PLDT with other foreign telecommunications companies for overseas calls.
- Manila newsroom (632) 841-8937Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS), owned by three Southeast Asian firms, said on Tuesday it aimed to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subdiary of telecommunications giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to anywhere in some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system will also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through the firm's gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system as the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations which will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with a paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said ACeS is currently considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.This is Reuters' 14th ex-Amsterdam air cargo market report. It will be issued regularly until an updated version is published at a later date.
Below are the current average ex-Amsterdam Dutch guilder air cargo rates per kg for 100 kg shipment with a voulme-to-weight ratio of six-to-one.
				 August 9	   vs	  July 11
			    UNITED STATES
AMS-JFK			 1.05			    1.10
AMS-LAX			 1.85			    1.95
AMS-CHI			 1.25			    1.25
			    ASIA-PACIFIC
AMS-HKG			 2.45			    2.40
AMS-SIN			 2.20			    2.10
AMS-NRT			 4.10			    4.10
AMS-TPE			 2.50			    2.45
AMS-SEL			 3.60			    3.60
AMS-KUL			 2.50			    2.40
			    MIDDLE EAST
AMS-DXB			 1.55			    1.60
AMS-BAH			 2.10			    2.10
AMS-MCT			 2.50			    2.55
AMS-AUH			 1.85			    1.90
			    LATIN AMERICA
AMS-MEX			 3.65			    3.60
AMS-BOG			 3.50			    3.50
AMS-SCL (CHILE)	     5.45			    5.40
AMS-RIO			 5.00			    5.00
			    AFRICA
AMS-JNB			 3.70			    3.75
AMS-NBO			 2.35			    2.40
* The rates quoted in the report were obtained by Reuter journalists on a confidential basis from a range of airlines, forwarders and smaller air cargo agents.
* All tariffs are quoted airlines.
* The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and indicative of current market activity. Ex-Amsterdam Asian boom continues, perishables lift U.S.
By Helen Hill
Amsterdam, Aug 9 (Reuter) - In the Netherlands the traditional summer holiday slump does not seem to have had its usual impact on the air cargo market, with most carriers reporting an unusually busy August so far.
Asian carriers, based in the Netherlands, are having an especially hectic time.
A Malaysia Airlines cargo executive, Frans Meeuwes, said: "We have not had the usual slow-down period because of the summer holidays. All the carriers seem to be flying full, it is not just MAS." Yields also seem to be creeping up.
Other carriers backed this comment up, Pim de Goederen, Japan Airlines cargo director in Amsterdam, described the Dutch-Japanese market as "tremendous". Currently, he added, JAL is flying full of flower bulbs destined for the Japanese market.
Japan re-opened its doors to Dutch bulbs on August 1. More than 1,500 tonnes of Dutch bulbs are being shipped monthly by the Japanese carrier on its McDonnell Douglas MD-11 service.
Vegetables destined to Japan are another strong market, said de Goederen. Paprikas are especially in demand and this has increased this year, he added.
"Flowers are not in the volumes they once were because the Japanese can now import more cheaply from South America or South Africa," he said.
Imports from Japan are increasing slightly, though the strength of the yen deters Dutch buyers, he added. This leaves the carrier with a heavy traffic imbalance.
Although JAL would like more capacity outbound from the Netherlands, the traffic imbalance makes the possible introduction of more capacity unlikely, said de Goederen.
Korean Air's cargo manager, Mike Zimmerman, said: "Currently Korean Air is very busy, mainly with perishables destined for the Japanese market."
Koreans have not been quite as keen as the Japanese on Dutch flowers and bulbs but there is an increasing interest, he said.
Korean Air operates to 12 Japanese destinations on a daily basis from Seoul. Rates to Korea and Japan are remaining firm at 4.10 Dutch guilders and 3.60 respectively.
Forwarders too, are happy with business to Asia. Emery Worldwide's Benelux general manager, Koos van Velzen, said business to destinations such as Taiwan, Korea, Japan and Malaysia, was performing very well.
Jos van de Woensel, managing director of Zygene, general sales agent for Vietnam Airlines in the Netherlands, said Vietnam will take several years to develop but the Dutch-Vietnam market offers good potential.
Machine tools, construction equipment and semi-finished garments are amongst current exports to Vietnam. Goods are completed in Vietnam and then flown back to Europe.
Even the U.S. market, usually one dogged by over-capacity and low rates, is seeing a slight upturn. However, rates remain low and the surge in traffic is largely due to the Dutch perishables market.
Carriers seem to be able to get relatively healthy rates to the U.S. as long as they are carrying perishables.
One forwarder said the passenger business has led to more rates pressure on the U.S. west coast as well which means it is possible to get rates below 1.95 Dutch guilders. New York remains low and rates of one guilder are not unknown.
United Airline's European cargo sales manager, Peter Chase, said July and August are proving very busy as the American market clamours for Dutch vegetables and flowers.
John Smith, European cargo manager with American Airlines, traffic out of the Netherlands to the U.S. had increased on last year's volumes which is again due to the perishables market.
Last year a drought in the Dutch market meant Dutch produce growers had to pump huge volumes of water into their crops which pushed up the price. The U.S. could then buy vegetables such as tomatoes cheaper elsewhere, he said.
"We have been consistently full and have an average load factor of 84 per cent throughout Europe," said Smith. For this reason American will be increasing its tariffs from September 1.
However, if companies were not involved so heavily in the perishables market,the Dutch-U.S. picture is not quite so good. Several said rates are still under a lot of pressure and some are definitely on the decline.
Many U.S. computer manufacturers are expected to launch new models into Europe in the fourth quarter. Forwarders are hopeful that this will boost trade again.
Onno Wiersma of Air Cargo Trader gsa for Emirates Airline representative in the Netherlands, commented that capacity that available for Dutch cargo to the Middle East is full.Overflow cargo is being diverted to Emirates aircraft in London and Frankfurt, he said.
Emirates and KLM operate a three-times-a-week Boeing 747-200 freighter from Amsterdam to Dubai. Perishables, machinery spares, medical supplies and printed matter are the main exports ex-Amsterdam.
Van Velzen of Emery said the Middle East market was being affected by the summer season but the company has recently sent a European representative to the Middle East and is looking forward to more business from the region.
Latin America is not generating as much excitement as it did a few weeks ago. Cargo manager of Varig Brazilian Airlines, Dirk Hazenoot, said the market was "stable not crazy".
"We expected the market to drop off in line with the European holiday season but it continued and even seems to be increasing."
He could not pinpoint the exact reason for it but added that there had been some changes in the South American import rules and the car industry ex-Brazil was also doing well.
Rates are stable and were not showing any signs of declining at the moment, said Hazenoot. On average rates to Rio are five Dutch guilders and it is expected to stay at that level.
Air Cargo Trader director, Wiersma, who as well as representing Emirates is gsa for Aero Mexico, Aero Peru and Fast Air, in the Latin American market said the market is currently stable, as are the rates.
"Mexico has stabilised again after the problems with its economy. Machinery and automotive parts make up the bulk of the moves."
Wiersma added that he hopes to develop an interline agreement between Aero Mexico and Emirates to improve connections from the Middle East to Mexico.
Van de Woensel of Zygene, gsa for Air Gabon said South African rates are under pressure and he fears that this will get worse when Martinair launches its freighter into the market.
Air Gabon's business is very seasonal although there is some airfreight being moved for the oil industry, he said.
Martinair has just been given the green light by the Dutch and South African civil aviation authorities for a freighter service to Johannesburg. Market sources say it is likely to start in October or November using an MD-11 freighter.
In Amsterdam, some industry insiders are worried about the impact that Martinair and Virgin, both having announced plans to go to South Africa in the autumn, will have on the rates.
A LOT spokesman said intra-European airfreight continues despite predictions that airfreight cannot compete with roadfreight. He said safety and speed are key issues.
"Many of the multinationals prefer to have their cargo delivered to a modern, bonded warehouse at the airport rather than see it trucked into central Warsaw. Trucks can sometimes wait for 48 hours at the German/Polish border and it is often safer to send cargo by airfreight." --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish forest products group MoDo reports for the six months ending June 30, 1996 compared to the same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  1,661 vs  2,607
 Sales					10,222 vs 11,605
 Operating profit incl one-off items 1,892 vs  2,965  
 Operating costs			   7,741 vs  8,157
 Non-recurring items			  11 vs     69
 Profit from other companies		 2 vs     13
 Depreciation				  602 vs    565
 Net financial items			 231 vs    358
 Estimated full tax			  543 vs    668
 Net profit				  1,118 vs  1,939
 Earnings per shr (crowns)	     12.60 vs     21.80
 Currency hedging effect	  CREDIT 948 vs    n/a
NOTE -- MoDo Skog AB is a Swedish forestry products group.
A Reuters poll of 14 analysts found the market was expecting MoDo to post a first half profit after financial items of 1.44 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS
21/08 Nedlloyd	   Q2	  -10.8    -20- 0	 19.0
22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas.Integration may be the buzz word when it comes to buying an investment bank, but it is still too early to tell how successful the recent wave of purchases has really been, analysts said on Thursday.
While Swiss Bank Corp and Dutch financial services giant Internationale Nederlanden Groep (ING) have performed well since buying SG Warburg and Barings Bank respectively, the true value will only be known in the long run.
The crunch will come when the banks which have bought their way into the market meet a downturn, analysts say. It won't be until then they feel the pinch of any excessive spending.
ING on Thursday followed SBC's example in not breaking out the results of its investment banking arm, formed when it bought British merchant bank Barings in March 1995, after it collapsed from losses run up by rogue trader Nick Leeson.
It announced an increase rease in half-year net profit, but in choosing initially not to reveal the ING Barings results, raised questions among some analysts about its performance.
ING said it was not possible to separate out the Barings factor as it had been integrated into the new business unit. It later said ING Barings was currently earning an annual net profit of about 100 million guilders and was aiming for annual profits of 200 million.
"They have fulfilled all of the expectations we have set," Aad Jacobs, executive board chairman, told Reuters in Amsterdam.
Some said there were valid reasons for not breaking out the figures. "It would be an accounting nightmare," said one.
ING's net profit in the six months to June 30 was 1.51 billion guilders, up from 1.1 million a year earlier. Pre-tax banking profit jumped 39.2 percent to 1.02 billion guilders.
First-half profits were boosted by strong growth in income from its securities trading operations but it warned profits would not grow as fast in the second half.
Some suggested that ING Barings was a relatively small piece in the overall ING jigsaw, which encompasses huge insurance and retail banking concerns.
But there has been intense interest in the performance of the group since it rescued Barings when the blue-blooded bank collapsed in February 1995 after Singapore trader Nick Leeson had run up trading losses totalling $1.4 billion.
As with the formation of SBC Warburg, the problems of integrating the two have been the subject of much speculation.
The defection of a large number of Latin American equities staff to Deutsche Morgan Grenfell added fuel to rumours of internal dissatisfaction.
But the situation over Latin America had stabilised, with some recent new hirings, and an expected loss of staff in South East Asia had not occurred, analysts said.
Matthew Czepliewicz, European banking analyst at Salomon Brothers in London, said a major cost for banks which had bought an investment banking arm was that of retaining the staff.
He said it was difficult to say how much of ING's rise in profits was due to healthy market conditions and how much to Barings, but warned favourable markets would not last forever.
"It would be foolish to extrapolate the gains we have seen over the next six to 18 months...people are riding a wave of euphoria at the moment, but that won't last forever," he said.
And on the whole, acquisitions such as that of Barings by ING, Kleinwort Benson by Dresdner Bank and Morgan Grenfell by Deutsche Bank had made sense, Czepliewicz added.Kenya's main sugar millers have started major revamping programmes to meet high demand at a time when imports are expected to slow, commodity analysts and sugar executives said on Thursday.
Senior commodity analysts said constant breakdowns and lower recovery rates at the factories made it impossible to meet crushing targets or to attain their full crushing capacities.
But the major constraint remained funding and management problems, they said.
Kenya's six mills, all located in western Kenya, have a production capacity of 530,000 tonnes. The seventh miller, West Kenya, is privately-owned and produces only 500 tonnes a year.
Total Kenyan sugar production is forecast at 420,000 tonnes this year against consumption of 560,000 tonnes.
Government figures show that sugar imports reached 244,400 tonnes in 1995 but commodity experts say taxes will cut that to around 80,000 tonnes this year.
Mumias Sugar Company, which accounts for 55 percent of the national output, is replacing its mills with diffusers at a cost of 4.5 billion shillings ($78.95 million) to raise cane crushing capacity to 8,000 tonne per day from the current 7,000 tonnes.
"Diffusers are modern and cut costs on repairs. They will be operational at end-December,"  said David Carter, general manager of the Mumias Sugar Company.
Augustine Sakwa, of the farmers' body Mumias Out-Growers Company, said maintenance had cut crushing capacity at the Mumias mill to 4,000 tonnes per day from 7,000 tonnes per day.
Sakwa added that nearly two million tonnes of cane was rotting in the Mumias fields because of transportation problems.
Financing for the diffusers was sought from internal sources and foreign investors, Carter told Reuters.
Sugar officials said South Nyanza Sugar Company was still negotiating for loans to expand its crushing capacity to meet an oversupply of cane in that area.
"To adequately address the supply situation, the factory plans to raise its crushing capacity to 3,000 tonnes of cane per day, up from the installed capacity of 2,500 tonnes per day," said an official at the state-run Kenya Sugar Authority.
Muhoroni Sugar Company's immediate programme was to install a turbine generator powered by steam from the boilers to generate an adequate supply of electricity.
Crushing there has been undermined by frequent power shortages. The  Kenya Power & Lighting Company, a marketing monopoly, refuses to give guarantees on supply.
Miwani Sugar Company, which continues to perform poorly three years after privatisation, was closed between May and July for a major rehabilitation. It is the only Kenyan factory with the ability to process white mill sugar for industrial use.
Although it has a capacity to produce 40 tonnes of refined white sugar per day, many industry observers believe that the factory is not capable of producing even half of that capacity.
The government still holds a 49 percent stake in Miwani.
The cash-strapped  Nzoia Sugar Company has requested credit from the Kenya Sugar Authority to pay growers who have refused to supply cane owing to outstanding payment problems.
There were no indication of plans at Chemelil Sugar.
-- Nairobi Newsroom ++254-2 330-261Poland's KGHM Polska Miedz copper combine plans to set up a subsidiary to turn its long-defunct copper mine Konrad into a mineral water bottling and water supply company, a KGHM official said on Thursday.
Boguslaw Kantor, director in charge of the water project, said that KGHM, based in the southwestern city of Lubin, expected to register the new company as Aqua Konrad SA in October.
"As a part of the restructuring of the Konrad mine, a new company will be set up with a share capital of 120 million zlotys and...we expect to register Aqua Konrad SA in October," Kantor told Reuters.
He said the new venture would be controlled by KGHM with small minority stakes held by the local communities of Polkowice and Lubin, which later would contribute their existing water supply systems to the company.
Kantor said the mineral water bottling plant, with annual production capacity of about six million bottles should be completed next year, while the water supply system should become operational in 2003.
He said the company was expected to reach annual sales of about 265 million zlotys with 80 percent of revenue generated by the bottling plant, which would support the less-profitable water supply project.
"The total investment is estimated at about 250 million zlotys," he said.
Kantor said the project, which was expected to start bringing profits within seven years, would allow KGHM to minimise the costs of phasing out the Konrad mine's operations, which now had to be maintained for safety reasons.
The venture would also create about 200 jobs for 600 workers now employed at the mine, he said.
Kantor said the full shut-down of the mine would take seven years and would cost KGHM 140 million zlotys.
KGHM, one of the world's largest copper producers, which had sales of 3.6 billion zlotys in 1995, is slated for a partial sell-off in the first quarter of 1997.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Gruma SA, the world's largest producer of corn flour, plans to use almost all the $258 million it will receive in a new strategic partnership with Archer Daniels Midland Co. to pay down short term debt, the chief executive officer Eduardo Livas said Thursday.
Livas, speaking in a telephone interview with Reuters after Gruma linked with one of the world's largest agribusiness companies, said a substantial amount of the cash injection would be used to pay down the company's outstanding bank debts of $580 million.
"It will be $250 million or something like that....reducing our debt to around $320 million," Livas said.  
Livas said Gruma's average debt rates were around 10.5 percent, although he said the company would obviously looking to pay down more expensive short-term revolving debts, where the company had some rates in the 11 to 13 percent range.
Key elements to the strategic partnership, that the companies announced in a joint statement released earlier Thursday, are that ADM receives a 22 percent a stake in Gruma, Gruma receives a $258 million payment from ADM and that the companies will establish joint ventures in U.S. corn flour operations and Mexican wheat flour operations.  
Livas said the company realised it needed to increase equity to isolate Gruma from foreign exchange fluctuations and because interest expenses were proving substantial.
In 1995 interest expenses account for around 80 percent of the company's operating profit. "Most of our profits were going to finance expenses," he said, adding that the situation had improved in 1996 but that the ratio was still running at around 45 percent.
After discussions with advisors, who said Gruma could possibly raise between $100 and $120 million on markets via a share issue, Livas said the company opted for the alliance with ADM, especially considering difficult market conditions with issues being postponed and delayed.
Livas said the companies seek to quickly beef up the Mexican wheat milling side of the venture. ADM's two Mexican mills, one in Mexico City and one in Torreon, are running at around 20 to 30 percent of their total capacity of around 250,000 tonnes per year.
"We are going to focus first on utilizing the capacity and then expanding operations," Livas said. He added the companies sought to reach a market share of around 25 to 30 percent and milling around one million tonnes "within five to seven years."Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said on Thursday it could fulfil domestic demand for its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine in December when a new plant sterol processing unit is opened.
"We expect we will be able to fullfil the domestic demand in December," Raision Tehtaat information manager Jarkko Heino told Reuters by telephone.
Heino was asked to comment on local media reports that Raisio could increase output of its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine five-fold after the new unit to process its key ingredient, plant sterol, comes on stream.
"There is some misunderstanding. It is not true," Heino said. "But production will certainly increase." He declined to specify any amount.
Heino also declined to estimate when Raisio's production capacity would allow exports of Benecol.
"It will not happen this year, and nothing can be said about next year," Heino said.
Not processing capacity, but the lack of plant sterol has been the crucial bottle neck for Benecol production, he said.
"We expect we can solve it," he said.
He repeated Raisio's forecast that net sales of Benecol would be some 60 million markka this year, but declined to give any estimate for 1997.
-- Ilkka Virtanen, Helsinki newsroom +358-0-6805 0248Den Danske Bank on Thursday said that core earnings rose 43 percent in the first half of 1996 but the pace of growth was unlikely to last.
"In the second half of 1996, core earnings, including earnings from insurance operations, are not likely to reach the level recorded in the first six months, but core earnings for the year are expected to improve somewhat on 1995," it said.
Releasing half-year results slightly down on the same period last year, the bank, Denmark's biggest, said that earnings from currency and securities dealing fell by 35 percent.
"Group results for 1996 will be particularly influenced by year-end bond and share prices," it said, making no forecast.
It logged a 1996 first half pre-tax ordinary result of 2.381 billion crowns ($415.2 million), down from 2.537 billion during the same period last year but above the most optimistic of forecasts by a panel of analysts whose estimates ranged from 1.250 to 2.250 billion.
Core earnings were up to 1.793 billion crowns in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1.257 billion during the first half of 1995. Full-year 1995 core earnings were 2.785 billion crowns.
But profit from stocks and foreign exchange slid to 585 million crowns from 906 million in the same period last year.
Provisions were almost halved, to 341 million crowns from 661 million, but the bank quoted its chief executive as saying that they would be likely to rise again in the future.
"Knud Soerensen said that provisions could probably not be maintained at this low level through a normal economic cycle," the report said.
It added that although provisioning in the second half was already likely to show an increase over the first six months, the figure for the full year was expected to be lower than 1995's 1.254 billion.
The bank said it returned 15.6 percent on equity.
The Copenhagen stock market welcomed the report, sending the bank's share up 8.5 crowns to 404.5 after the announcement, although it later settled back to 402.00 crowns.
Soerensen later told Reuters that he aimed to increase group profitability further by a fresh round of cost-cutting, after triiming outgoings by 91 million crowns to 3.067 billion during the 1996 first half.
"We are a little careful about anticipating a continued fall in our costs but we will work with that aim," he said.
Staff cuts of almost 700 to a present force of 11,000 have helped bring about cost reductions.
Den Danske Bank's closest rival, Unidanmark, on Tuesday filed first half profits up 18 percent to 1.275 billion crowns, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. -- Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.735 Danish Crown)Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said on Thursday it could fulfil domestic demand for its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine in December when a new plant sterol processing unit is opened.
"We expect we will be able to fullfil the domestic demand in December," Raision Tehtaat information manager Jarkko Heino told Reuters by telephone.
Heino was asked to comment on local media reports that Raisio could increase output of its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine five-fold after the new unit to process its key ingredient, plant sterol, comes on stream.
"There is some misunderstanding. It is not true," Heino said. "But production will certainly increase." He declined to specify any amount.
Heino also declined to estimate when Raisio's production capacity would allow exports of Benecol.
"It will not happen this year, and nothing can be said about next year," Heino said.
Not processing capacity, but the lack of plant sterol has been the bottleneck for Benecol production, he said.
"We expect we can solve it," he said.
He repeated Raisio's forecast that net sales of Benecol would be some 60 million markka this year, but declined to give any estimate for 1997.
-- Ilkka Virtanen, Helsinki newsroom +358-0-6805 0248Britain's Rentokil Group Plc on Thursday notched up a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil made a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds in the six months to June 30, just at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change follows the pest control-to-security group's victorious 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
The firm now aims to be called Rentokil Initial Plc.
Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He added Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's turnover more than doubled to 842 million pounds from 400.9 million and shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence up from 1.23 pence.
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds to turnover and 15.1 million pounds to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact on Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds and profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds.
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence pence, up three pence in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds.
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
Plans for the integration of hospital services and hygiene and health care are also well advanced, he said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
But Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals. "We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.
($1=.6460 Pound)German chemicals group BASF AG should achieve 1996 net and pre-tax profits slightly higher than year-earlier earnings, group chief financial officer Max Dietrich Kley said on Thursday.
In a speech for delivery at a news conference in London, Kley said that this forecast might prove very conservative, given the chance for an upturn in the German economy.  
"According to our current projection, we are assuming that both profit before taxes and net income after taxes for total 1996 will be slightly higher than in 1995," Kley said.
"If there would be an economic upswing in the second half of the year, which is expected by some of our competitors, surely our prediction of today is very conservative," he added.
BASF earlier reported a rise in first-half pre-tax profit to 2.323 billion marks from 2.025 billion, boosted by favourable currency developments and better performances at its pharmaceuticals, oil and gas and crop protection businesses.  
The crop protection activities will contribute less to second half profits due to the seasonal pattern in this sector, executive chairman Juergen Strube told reporters here.
The first half profit rise was achieved despite lower results in the chemicals business where prices have fallen sharply, partly due to customers running down their stocks.
But Strube, who noted rising orders in most business areas in July, said he believed the de-stocking process had stopped as economies were picking up.
"My overall impression is that de-stocking is coming to an end. Many customers will be enhancing their stock levels to accommodate for additional orders they are expecting," he said.
"The overall business climate in central Europe is improving," he told Reuters.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769National Grid, which runs the English and Welsh high voltage electricity transmission system, called on its one million investors to help convince electricity regulator Stephen Littlechild to moderate his price review.
Following gas regulator Clare Spottiswoode's concessions to British Gas on Wednesday after a consultation period, the Grid said shareholders now had a chance to officially object to plans that could wipe up to 1.2 billion stg off revenues.
"It's (Spottiswoode's final proposals) a confirmation that it is well worthwhile for everybody to argue their point of view," a company spokesman told Reuters.  
Littlechild is proposing a one-off cut in prices in April 1997 of 20-26 percent, followed by a further four percent reduction in each of the following three years.
The Grid says the proposals announced last week will hit the revenues by 1-1.2 billion pounds over the four-year period and it reiterated its warning in an open letter on Thursday that the plans were against shareholders' interests.
"(They) will adversely effect our ability to grow dividends at a satisfactory rate," the Grid stated in a statement.  
The company, which says its own efficiency programme over the period would mean the loss of around 500 jobs, said that "obviously" job losses would increase with harsh price curbs.
The company argues the the proposals go against the spirit of "incentive regulation". The Grid said it has already cut costs by 40 percent since 1991 and does not believe there are comparable opportunities for cost reductions in the future.
Another point of contention is how Littlechild has valued its assets. Littlechild proposes to set the asset value by using the group's share price on the day of its listing.  
But shares have sunk from a high of 209 pence to 174 pence, and the company says the regulator's interpretation reduces the transmission asset value by over one billion stg, thereby reducing National Grid's income which is based on that value.
"Of course we want customers to have lower bills," wrote chairman David Jefferies in the open letter to shareholders.
"However, we believe the balance in the regulator's current proposals is tilted against your interests..."
The Grid has until September 10 to argue its case.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4017British pest control to security group Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it plans no major disposals from its acquired rival BET.
Earlier this year Rentokil won a fierce battle to buy BET for 2.1 billion stg and said that it would consider the future of BET's Plant Hire, Style and Resorts International unit.
But chief executive Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals.
"We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.Caledonia Mining Corp said Thursday it has made a significant copper and cobalt discovery in Zambia.
The deposit is in Caledonia's Kadola licence area about 40 km south of Luanshya and the Zambian Copperbelt.
The company said 12 out of 15 shallow reverse circulation holes drilled across a geochemical anomaly have struck significant copper and cobalt oxide mineralization.
The company drilled an area measuring 2.5 km by about 0.5 km.
Five holes ended in oxidized mineralization, Caledonia said.
Caledonia has been exploring in Zambia for about two years and has made three cobalt oxide discoveries in its Nama licence area to the northwest of the Copperbelt.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Four Seasons Hotels Inc said on Thursday it will hold a special meeting of shareholders on October 3 at which holders will vote on an amendment to the articles of the company dealing with share capital.
Since 1986, the family of Isadore Sharp has controlled Four Seasons through holdings of multiple voting shares, now representing roughly 65 percent of the votes attached to the company's outstanding shares.
The company said to ensure that future growth does not does not significantly alter the present voting arrangement, it will propose a change in its share structure.  
The company is proposing that the existing multiple voting shares, which each carry 12 votes, be swapped for new variable voting shares, which carry a number of votes that increases proportionately as more subordinate voting shares are issued.
The variable voting shares would therefore continue to carry about 65 percent of the voting power no matter how many subordinate voting shares are issued, Four Seasons said.
This process would be subject to a ratification vote from a majority of subordinate voting shareholders other than Isadore Sharp and his associates every three years, beginning at Four Seasons' annual meeting in the year 2000.  
Four Seasons will also propose that its articles will be amended to provide that from the time the votes are adjusted, the dividend entitlement on the variable voting shares will decrease to 50 percent of the entitlement per share of the subordinate voting shares. The subordinate voting shares will be renamed limited voting shares.
The proposal is subject to regulatory approval as well as that of a majority of the votes cast by holders of subordinate voting shares, other than Isadore Sharp and his associates. It must also win the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by holders of the multiple voting and subordinate voting shares.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996			    1995
 Shr	   loss	C$0.01     loss	C$0.10
 Net	   loss	    47     loss	   602
 Revs			14,200		    6,300
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is ZCL Composites Inc.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-81001996			    1995
 Shr			 C$0.01		   C$0.01
 Net			    110			 79
 Revs			21,001		   49,347
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.07		   C$0.19
 Net			    646		    1,795
 Revs			58,342		   76,800
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Full name is Atlantis Communications Inc
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Imasco Ltd said on Thursday that its 98-percent owned subsidiary CT Financial Services Inc has inked a deal to sell First Savings and Loan Association of Rochester to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo.
Marine Midland is a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.
Proceeds of the deal are expected to be more than C$935 million, and include the sale price of C$843 million plus a pre-closing dividend from First Federal.
Imasco said CT Financial will post a pre-tax gain of about C$320 million on the sale. The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is due to close in three to six months.  
"The North American financial services industry evolved quickly in recent years and CT Financial believes the best course of action is to sell First Federal and pursue its U.S. expansion in other ways," Imasco president and chief executive Brian Levitt said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100-- Hilliard Lyons analyst Stephen O'Neil said Thursday he upgraded his rating on Res-Care Inc to a buy from hold following the recent decline in the stock price.
-- Res-Care shares were changed at 18-1/4.
-- "Fundamentals remain strong and we forecast 20 percent annual earnings growth for (Res-Care)," O'Neil said.
-- He added the stock is a good buying opportunity for long-term growth-oriented investors.
-- His two- to three-year price target is $27 a share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.32		    $0.14
 Net			  6,879		    2,919
 Revs		     105,030		  104,831
 Avg shrs		  21,417		   21,335
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Q2 1995 results after $218,000 or $0.01 a share extraordinary charge.  
Q2 1996 amortization $439,00 vs $3,799,000.
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	 $0.65     loss	 $0.16
 Net	 profit	13,956     loss	 2,638
 Revs		     210,335		  210,947
 Avg shrs		  21,404		   16,638
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Six-month 1995 results after $0.01 a share charge.
Six-month 1996 amortization $880,000 vs $16,441,000.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Shares of Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc rose 1-1/8 to 55-1/8 on Thursday after the company said fiscal 1996 earnings likely will be on the high side of its earlier range of projections of $2.50-$2.60 a share.
Pioneer added that results for the year could exceed that range.
Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman, who has projected fiscal 1996 earnings at $2.55 a share, said the company's latest announcement was "a pleasant surprise."  
Dahlman said Pioneer's soybeans and operations in Europe and South America have been particularly strong in fiscal 1996, which ends in August.
Pioneer also said Thursday that preliminary indications are that its North American seed corn market share will be about 44 percent, down from about 45 percent a year ago.
"We went on record (in January 1996) as saying they would lose market share," Dahlman said.
Pioneer also said its North American seed field yields are expected to meet expectations, although crop maturity is running behind normal because of cooler than normal weather in the Midwest. Yields also could be affected by an early frost.
Dahlman added the chance of an early frost is a concern for the seed crop. "We can't ignore that one," he said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787(In thousands, except per share amounts)
			    Three Months Ended	Year Ended
			   1996	  1995	 1996	  1995
 Net Sales	  $ 23,759    $ 29,713   $ 93,592   $ 119,439
Cost of Goods Sold
			  20,409(a)   19,672     64,379(a)   72,858
 R&D		     1,302	 1,597	6,149	 6,210
Restructuring and Other
   Special Charges   4,431	    --	4,431	    --
Total Operating
     Expenses	 13,932	11,063     42,999	44,854
Operating (Loss)
     Profit	  (10,582)     (1,022)   (13,786)	1,727
Net (Loss) Earnings
			  (7,390)(b)  (1,058)   (10,462)(b)     206
(Loss) Earnings Per
   Common Share:	(.65)(b)    (.09)	(.93)(b)     .02
(a) Includes special charges of $5.5 million related to revised business plan.
(b) Includes pre-tax restructuring and other special charges of $9.9 million.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr	profit	  $0.13     loss	 $0.31
 Net	profit	  2,761     loss	 4,956
 Revs			91,922		   80,215
 Avg shrs		  21,129		   15,889
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Full name is Culligan Water Technologies Inc.
Current Q2 includes $0.29/shr in reorganization charges and a $0.05 a share gain on an insurance settlement associated with fire at facility in Belgium in July 1993.  
Year-ago Q2 results reduced by $0.59 a share in reorganization charges.
Reorganization charges in both years reflect non-cash amortization charges related to reorganization of former parent.
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 loss	   $0.03     loss	 $0.70
 Net	 loss	     587     loss	11,167
 Revs		     175,312		  148,982
 Avg shrs		  19,915		   15,889
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Current six-month results include $0.78 a share in reorganization charges and $0.05 a share insurance gain.
Year-ago six-month results include $1.17 a share in reorganization charges.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Swedish-British stainless steel producer Avesta Sheffield posts its results for the three months ending June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Pre-tax profit				228 vs  1,226
 Sales					 4,575 vs  6,127
 Operating profit before deprec	  322 vs  1,326
 Depreciation				  124 vs    128
 Operating profit after deprec	   198 vs  1,198
 Result before financial items	   206 vs  1,228
 Financial items		     CREDIT 22 vs	2 CHARGE
 Tax						73 vs    370
 Minorities					5 vs     10 CHARGE
 Net profit				    160 vs    846
 Earnings per shr (crowns)		1.01 vs	5.35
 Return on capital used (pct)	     11 vs     57
NOTE -- Avesta Sheffield AB lengthened its 1995 financial year to 15 months to tally with that of British Steel, which owns 51 percent of the company.
A Reuters poll of nine analysts forecast Avesta Sheffield to post a pre-tax profit of 229 million crowns for its first quarter of 1996/97.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Sweden's largest steel proucer, SSAB, posts its figures for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  1,486 vs   2,288
 Operating income			  9,406 vs   9,994
 Operating costs			   7,762 vs   7,509
 Depreciation				  362 vs     335
 Interest from other companies	    34 vs	50
 Financial items			     170 vs	88
 Minorities				     26 vs	41
 Tax					     403 vs     625
 Net profit				  1,057 vs   1,622
 Earnings per shr (crowns)		8.25 vs	12.65
NOTE -- SSAB is a Swedish steel producer.
A Reuters poll of 11 analysts found the market was forecasting an average profit before financial items of 1.42 billion crowns for the first half of 1996.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Swedish industrial gas concern AGA reports its results for six months to June 30, 1996, compared with the first half of 1995.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		    964 vs  1,117
 Sales					 6,409 vs  6,775
 Operating costs			   4,930 vs  5,113
 Capital gains			     1,794 vs    601
 Depreciation				  659 vs    656
 Net profit				  2,277 vs  1,381
 Paid tax					393 vs    230
 Deferred tax				   85 vs    102
 Minorities					3 vs	5
 EPS (crowns)				 9.37 vs	5.70
NOTE - Swedish gas company AGA was expected to post a profit after financial items of 1.09 billion crowns for the first half, according to a Reuters poll of 10 analyasts.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Swedish construction and real
estate group Skanska AB reports its results for the six months
to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  2,377 vs   1,508
 Order intake			     23,810 vs  19,721
 Sales					22,881 vs  18,856
 Operating profit after deprec	   696 vs   1,689
 Operating costs			  22,056 vs 17,321
 Depreciation				  603 vs    498
 Net interest items			  462 vs    441
 Exchange differences		CHARGE 16 vs     15 CHARGE
 Gain on share sales/participation   1,755 vs	4
 Other financial items		CREDIT 2 vs	4 CHARGE
 Tax					     592 vs    407
 Minorities				    133 vs    175
 Net profit				  1,601 vs    926
NOTE -- Skanska AB is a Swedish construction and real estate company.
A Reuters poll of eight analysts found the market was expecting Skanska to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017Six months to June 30, 1996.
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Operating profit			 2,474  vs 1,692
 Profit before loan losses	    3,379  vs 3,042
 Loan losses				  905  vs 1,350
 Interest income			 22,865  vs 24,060
 Interest costs			  17,406  vs 18,420
 Commission income			1,304  vs    902
 Profit, financial transactions	 592  vs    264
 Other income				 476  vs    564
 Total income			     7,831  vs  7,370
 Admin costs				3,771  vs  3,685
 Depreciation				 517  vs    605
 Deprec of group goodwill		  87  vs    nil
 Other operating costs		     77  vs     38
 Total costs				4,452  vs  4,328
 Profit before loan losses	    3,379  vs  3,042
 Interest net			     5,043  vs  5,204
 Shr (crowns)				6.57  vs   5.31
 Loan loss percentage		     0.5  vs    0.7
NOTE -- Full name of commercial bank is Sparbanken Sverige AB. Analysts polled by Reuters expected an operating profit of 2.52 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006The governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway, part owners of Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) would consider reducing their holdings in the carrier to increase private ownership, a senior Danish transport ministry official told Reuters on Thursday.
"This is a very long term concept tied to the purchase of new aircraft and the three governments would insist on holding on to at least 35 percent of shares in each SAS unit in the three countries," the official said.
"This would ensure that the governments could block any major changes in SAS. The governments are prepared to surrender their majority shareholdings if it is necessary to attract new capital for buying new planes," he said.
"Given European Union monopoly policies and (national) budgetary considerations, the Scandinavian governments are hardly interested in increasing their shareholding in SAS. They would prefer to allow the airline to seek funding through a possible share issue on the private market," he concluded.
Media reports say that SAS will in the coming years have to consider investing in some 50 new aircraft for European routes and an unspecified number for intercontinental services.
SAS is jointly owned by the governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway and private investors with the three Scandinavian states currently holding 50 percent of shares in each of the three local SAS units.
Sweden has a three-sevenths stake in SAS, with Denmark and Norway each holding two-sevenths.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33969652Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Life assurance		    2,210	vs	   1,458
 Non-life insurance		  649	vs	     656
 UNI Storebrand ASA		   97	vs     minus 151
 Storebrand Bank AS	   minus 14	vs	     n/a
Eliminations/
 other companies	     minus 216	vs		13
 Operating result		  2,756	vs	   1,990
Life policy holder's
 portion			     1,896	vs	   1,207
 Group result			  860	vs	     783
NOTE -- Full name of Norway's largest insurance company is UNI Storebrand ASA. Seven analysts polled by Reuters forecast the company would book a first-half group result of 683 million crowns on the average.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS 22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas.Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Operating revenue	    6,722     vs	  5,859
 Operating costs		4,966     vs	  4,573
 Depreciations		    563     vs	    400
 Operating result	     1,193     vs	    886
Result before minorities
 and tax			  1,042     vs	    854
 Pre-tax result		 1,044     vs	    857
 After-tax result		 760     vs	    617
NOTE - Full name of Norway's biggest forestry company is Norske Skogindustrier ASA. Eight analysts polled by Reuters forecast a first-half operating result of 1,181 million crowns. The company said it expected second half results to be weaker partly because of the weakening of the markets for SC and newsprint.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Six months to June 30 (in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			1,370   vs 1,196
    Group pre-tax profit		  2,323   vs 2,025
    Group sales excluding taxes	 24,267  vs 24,057
NOTE - Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted on average a 17 percent rise in pre-tax profit with estimates ranging between 2.27 billion and 2.38 billion marks. Sales were forecast to increase by three percent on average excluding gas and mineral oil taxes, with estimates ranging between 23.9 billion and 26.4 billion marks.
    Parent pre-tax profit		 1,156   vs 1,161
    Parent sales excl taxes	     10,389  vs 11,336
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525The financial group connected to Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. (IPB) said on Thursday that it had taken control over the Czech glass fibre producer Vertex a.s. .
Spokesman for IPB investment arm Prvni Investicni, Tomas Kopriva, told Reuters that the IPB Group had placed its chosen directors on Vertex's board by controlling more than 51 percent of the voting shares present at an extraordinary shareholders meeting in the eastern Czech town of Litomysl.  
"Altogether more than 51 percent voted with us," Kopriva said.
IPB has been battling for the control of Vertex with another large Czech banking group Komercni Banka a.s. .
In June and July analysts said both groups had been amassing shares in Vertex through the secondary market, helping to push the stock's price over 7,000 crowns.
The stock was down 251 crowns from Wednesday's close at 4,783 at the Prague Stock Exchange's daily fixing, prior to the results of the general meeting.
-- Radek Narovec, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003The Slovak National Property Fund (NPF) on Thursday said it would amend the recent sale of a major stake in oil and gas storage firm Nafta a.s. to include "at least" a 10 percent stake for company employees.
"The (NPF) will propose an amendment to the contract with Druha Obchodna a.s., the new owner of 45.9 percent of Nafta, stipulating the firm will have to sell a stake representing at least 10 percent of Nafta's basic capital to Nafta employees," Oto Balogh, NPF spokesman, told Reuters.  
The NPF is the state privatisation agency charged with selling state property.
Earlier on Thursday, NPF President Stefan Gavornik told the official Slovak radio that he expected the NPF presidium, the agency's executive body, to approve the amendment to contract at its meeting on August 27.
The NPF raised eyebrows at the beginning of August when it sold its entire holdings in Nafta to the private, and little- known firm Druha Obchodna for 500 million crowns, far below market value.  
Analysts have said that the parcel of shares had a market value of some 3.2 billion crowns.
Nafta shares closed at 2,000 crowns on BSE on Wednesday while the NPF sale price averaged about 400 crowns per share.
Nafta was originally included on a government list of strategic companies which would not be privatised at all, or in which the government will retain a veto right over the key decisions.
Despite the sale, the government continues to hold the veto right its so-called "golden share", which was approved by a Nafta shareholders' meeting this spring.
-- Peter Laca, Bratislava Newsroom, 42-7-210-3687The Budapest Stock Exchange (BSE) confirmed floor traders' information and said trading in the shares for hotel chain Danubius was suspended for Thursday.
"The reason is a news in daily newspaper Nepszabadsag which said that (Hungary's state privatisaton agency) APV sells HungarHotels to Danubius," a BSE spokeswoman told Reuters.
The bourse official said Danubius itself could not confirm the news.
"At this moment one cannot decide whether the news is true or not and this seriously influences the price of the share," she said. "That's why we suspended it for today."
Danubius was unable to confirm the news of the tender decision to Reuters.
Nepszabadsag reported today that the board of APV declared Danubius as the winner for the privatisation tender of Hungaria Szalloda Rt (former HungarHotels) at its meeting on Wednesday.
According to Nepszabadsag Danubius submitted the highest bid, offering more than eight billion forints for the chain which has 14 hotels.
Including the sale of Danubius employee shares APV will raise 8.8 billion forints, Nepszabadsag said.
APV will hold its regular press conference later today.
	 -- Emese Bartha, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Alliance Communications Corp said on Thursday it sold an additional 150,000 class B non-voting shares to the underwriters in its offering that closed August 7.
The shares were pruchased after underwriters exercised their over-allotment option at US$8.50 per share.
With the additional shares, Alliance said it has issued a total of 2,970,000 class B shares under the offering for proceeds of US$25.2 million.
-- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Takeover target Arequipa Resources Inc said Thursday it has not been approached by any other bidders since it accepted a C$30 a share bid from Barrick Gold Corp.
"The only reason I told Canada AM that I felt there was still a possibiity of a higher bid is that I continue to believe the company has great assets which should be valuable to another number of major international mining companies," Arequipa president Catherine McLeod said in an interview.
"But we've not been seriously approached by any other bidder since the date of our agreement with Barrick."  
On Thursday morning, McLeod told Canada AM, a morning television show on CTV, there was a 40 to 50 percent chance of another bid appearing on Thursday or Friday.
McLeod clarified the comment later in the day.
"Sometimes a surprise bid comes up at the last minute. We're not expecting one particularly," she said.
"It's always a serious possiblity but we have not been approached by anyone."
A week ago, Arequipa accepted Barrick's C$30 a share offer.  
All Arequipa directors, including McLeod, and some shareholders have agreed to tender about 23 percent of shares under a lock-up agreement with Barrick.
Arequipa has not had a change of heart, McLeod said.
"We're happy with Barrick," she said. "We think it's a terrific company. We can't think of any better gold company to develop our assets."
Under Arequipa's deal with Barrick, Barrick will receive a fee of C$18 million if there is a rival bid of at least C$31.50 a share that Barrick does not match.
Analysts have said only a few companies could afford to match Barrick's offer, which gives shareholders a choice of all cash or a mix of cash and shares.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Dominion Bond Rating Service said on Thursday it confirmed all the ratings of CT Financial Services Inc including its convertible debentures at AA (low) with a stable trend, after its deal to sell a U.S. unit.
CT Financial's ratings will remain at Pfd-1 for its senior preference shares, Pfd-1 (low) for its non-cumulative preference shares and R-1 (middle) for its short-term debt instruments.
CT Financial sold its First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc.  
DBRS said the C$935 million price is "favorable." Also, CT Financial's decision to enter the U.S. market in another fashion will not likely affect its bottom line. DBRS said "... key capital ratios will remain favorable under any scenario." CT Financial is 98 percent owned by Imasco Ltd, which is 41.5 percent owned by B.A.T Industries Plc.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Westmin Resources Ltd and Atna Resources Ltd said Thursday that their Wolverine metals deposit in Canada's Yukon territory continues to expand to the northwest.
A recently drilled hole shows a second high-grade intersection on the property, the companies said.
The results show 3.91 grams of gold per tonne over a length of two metres with a true thickness of 1.7 metres. Silver, copper, lead and zinc were also present.
A second hole struck a thicker intersection of mineralization, the companies said.
The results show a true thickness of 4.9 metres, with 1.60 grams of gold per tonne over 5.7 metres. Silver, copper, lead and zinc were also struck.
The companies will continue to drill in the area, they said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.35		   C$0.31
 Net			  3,315		    2,908
 Revs			96,537		   87,751
			  6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.52		   C$0.45
 Net			  4,866		    4,221
 Revs		     172,281		  159,621
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Teck Corp said Thursday it expects to determine within the next few days the exact amount of its gain on its 10.4 percent stake in Diamond Fields Resources Inc, which was bought out by Inco Ltd.
Teck chief financial officer John Taylor said the mining company would likely issue a news release in the next few days. The gain would be booked in the third quarter. Teck acquired its stake in Diamond Fields for C$108 million.
Inco closed Wednesday its C$4.3 billion takeover of Diamond Fields. Teck said Thursday it would issue up to C$280 million of debentures exchangeable into Inco common stock.  
Under terms of the Diamond Fields takeover, Teck will receive a mix of securities and cash including 5.5 million to 5.8 million Inco common shares.
Taylor said calculating Teck's gain must await an announcement from Inco on the exact mix of cash and securities that shareholders will receive. Teck elected to receive the maxmimum cash possible under the offer but the exact ratios depend on balancing what all shareholders choose, he said.
Inco is expected to me an announcement on final terms soon.
-- Reuters Vancouver Bureau (604) 664-7314The president of takeover target Arequipa Resources Ltd said Thursday there is a good chance another company will take on Barrick Gold Corp with a rival takeover bid for the junior gold company.
"I would say there's probably a 40 to 50 percent chance of another bid appearing, and it probably will be today or tomorrow," Arequipa president Catherine McLeod told Canada AM, a morning television show on CTV.
Arequipa has already accepted a C$30 a share offer from Barrick.  
All Arequipa directors, including McLeod, and some shareholders have agreed to tender about 23 percent of shares under a lock-up agreement with Barrick.
Under the deal, Barrick will receive a fee of C$18 million if there is a rival bid of at least C$31.50 a share that Barrick does not match.
Analysts have said ony a handful of companies would be able to top Barrick's bid, which offers Arequipa shareholders all cash or a mix of cash and shares.
Vancouver-based Arequipa's main asset is the Pierina gold deposit in Peru. Experts have speculated the deposit may have potential reserves of up to 12 million ounces of high-quality gold. But they noted exploration is still in its early stages.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Canadian Bond Rating Service said on Thursday that it reaffirmed all the ratings of CT Financial Services Inc, after its agreement to sell First Federal Savings and Loan Assocation of Rochester.
The agency said the rating outlook for CT Financial is stable.
CT Financial, whose Canada Trust is a major player in Canada's banking industry, is 98 percent owned by Imasco Ltd, which is 41.5 percent owned by B.A.T Industries Plc.  
CT Financial said on Thursday it agreed to sell First Federal to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, for more than C$935 million.
CBRS said the favourable ratings largely reflect the financial strengths of CT Financial's Canada Trust unit -- a strong market position in consumer banking, good profitability with relatively stable historical trend, excellent asset quality, strong capital levels and liquidity position and a well hedged balance sheet.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Bema Gold Corp and Arizona Star Resource Corp said Thursday they have completed a deal for a C$14 million private placement in Arizona Star.
Bema said it will purchase one million common shares of Arizona Star at C$14 per share.
The money will be used to fund Arizona Star's portion of more deep diamond drilling on the Cerro Casale gold and copper porphyry deposit at the Aldebaran property in Chile.
More drilling results from this deposit are expected within two weeks, the companies said.  
The property is 51 percent owned by Arizona and 49 percent by Bema.
Recent drilling at Cerro Casale has confirmed the existence of a major gold copper deposit beneath the existing two million ounce oxide gold deposit which is in the final feasibility stage.
Arizona Star said it also plans to use some of the proceeds to fund driling on other parts of the Aldebaran property in October.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100MDC Communications Corp, after reporting a second-quarter loss, said on Thursday it still expected substantial year-over-year gains in earnings for 1996.
The marketing and communications firm said, however, that third-quarter results would be no better than break even. MDC said the third quarter was traditionally its weakest period.  
"Our major gains are budgeted for the fourth quarter and we expect to achieve them," MDC President Miles Nadal said in a statement. "This will result in substantial year over year growth in earnings per share for the fiscal year ended December 31."
MDC reported a second quarter loss of C$0.04 per share against a profit of C$0.10 per share in the year ago period.
The company said the loss in the second quarter was due to seasonality of Regal Greetings & Gifts sales and one-time costs from the integration of House of Questa.
	  -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-81001996			    1995
 Shr	   loss	C$0.04   profit	C$0.10
 Net	   loss	   556   profit	 1,012
 Revs			45,918		   39,354
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	C$0.12   profit	C$0.17
 Net	 profit	 1,265   profit	 1,774
 Revs			93,477		   82,972
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Earnings in 1995 include a C$2.3 million gain.
The gain resulted from the renegotiation of a major premises lease.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Canada's largest department store retailer, Hudson's Bay Co, forecast better results in the year's second half as the retailer expands and consumers open their wallets.
Chief executive George Kosich said "I fully expect that the combination of increased sales due to growing consumer confidence as well as to our ongoing expansion activities, improved margins and the benefits arising from the consolidation of functions, will lead to improved results in both Zellers and the Bay over the balance of the year."  
"In our industry results of the first half of the year cannot be considered indicative of the outlook for the all important second half," Kosich said in a statement.
Hudson's Bay released its second-quarter results, which plunged from a year earlier. Profit for the period ended July 31 dropped to C$0.01 a share versus C$0.10.
ScotiaMcLeod senior vice-president Fred Ketchen said Canada's sluggish economy contributed to the poor results. "It is disappointing to see it," Ketchen said. "Canadians are just not spending their money."  
"I think it represents quite a challenge to the Bay," Ketchen added.
Hudson's Bay said it had compared this year's figures for its department store chain The Bay to "abnormally high sales in May last year as the Bay took advantage of numerous events to celebrate the company's 325th anniversary."
In the second half, the Bay will open one new store and finish a major expansion. Discount chain Zellers will open five new stores, finish 10 expansions and close three outlets.
The second half should bring more consumer spending, it said.  
"The retail climate should benefit over the balance of the year from the combination of low rates of interest and inflation and from tax reductions for many customers," it said.
Canada's major banks chopped prime lending rates to 5.75 percent from 6.0 percent, effective Friday, after the Canadian central bank dropped short-term interest rates to 4.25 percent today.
It was the seventh time the Bank of Canada dropped rates this year. Prime rates are now at their lowest level since late March in 1994.
Ontario's government has also promised to slash personal income tax rates by 30.2 percent over three years in its latest budget.
-- Lydia Zajc, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Q2 ended July 31
				1996			    1995
 Shr	 profit	C$0.01   profit	C$0.10
 Net	 profit	   374   profit	 6,063
 Revs		   1,376,281		1,396,793
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	   loss	C$0.90     loss	C$0.15
 Net	   loss	53,045     loss	 8,640
 Revs		   2,570,408		2,622,755
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)  
Note: Six months' figures in 1996 include a C$64 million restructuring loss.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Inco Ltd was down slighty on heavy volume in the first hours of trading Thursday, as investors shifted their positions after the closing of the Diamond Fields Resources takeover.
Inco's stock was down C$0.85 to C$44.90 in trading of 780,000 shares. In New York, the shares were unchanged at 32-3/4 in trading of 498,000.
"All of a sudden you've got a lot more shares and people are probably flipping it," said mining analyst Bruce Reid with Yorkton Securities.  
On Wednesday, Inco finally closed its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields and its massive nickel resources at Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
Inco has created a new class of shares to allow Diamond Fields shareholders to participate directly in the profits of the deposit.
Some Inco shareholders may still fear earnings dilution because of the takeover, but most of them have already sold their stock, Reid said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100-- Donaldson Lufkin analyst Krishna Shankar said SDL Inc continues to have difficulties with manufacturing yields in its semiconductor chip production in the current quarter, according to research provided to Reuters.
-- As a result, Shankar expects the current third quarter's revenues to be flat sequentially at $22 million, with earnings of $0.21 per share, the report said.
-- He maintained his outperform rating on the stock.
-- The analyst said the company's third quarter product shipments and gross profit margins have come under pressure due to higher production costs, according to the research.  
-- However, he warned that the margin assumptions in his current quarter estimates could be aggressive "given that the magnitude of the problems and their effect on operating results will not be known until later in the quarter."
-- The DLJ analyst maintained his fiscal year 1996 revenue estimate of $88 million and earnings estimate of $0.80 per share and the "conservative" estimates for fiscal 1997 of $115 million and $1.15 per share, the report said.
-- SDL stock tumbled as much as 13 points to a low of 15 in morning trading. By early afternoon the stock stood at 17-7/8, down 10-1/8 points since Wednesday's close.  
-- Shankar was not available for comment on the research report.
-- The manufacturing yield problem was discussed in the company's recent 10-Q filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the analyst said in the report.
-- Shankar may consider raising his fiscal 1997 earnings estimate, depending on the speed of capacity additions and if demand for its products by telecommunications and cable companies remains strong, he wrote.  
-- The analyst maintained a 12-month target price on the stock based on a 30 times multiple of his calendar 1997 earnings estimate of $1.15 per share, according to the report.
-- He continued to project a five-year secular earnings per share growth rate of 35 percent for SDL, which he said was the dominant maker of high-power semiconductor lasers and integrated optoelectronics, with a 60 percent world share.
-- The analyst's comments coincide with a move by Cowen & Co analyst Drew Peck to cut his 1996 per-share earnings estimate on SDL by $0.13 to $0.68 and to lower his 1997 estimate by $0.04 to $1.00, according to the brokerage.
-- DLJ was the underwriter of a recent offering of SDL stock and of previous share offerings by the company. Cowen was a co-manager of the recent offering.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk 212-859-1736-- EVEREN Securities Inc said Thursday it lowered its fiscal fourth quarter estimate for Nordson Corp by $0.02 a share to $1.00.
-- Fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1997 earnings estimates remain unchanged at $2.90 and $3.35 a share, respectively.
-- Nordson recently reported fiscal third quarter earnings of $0.65 a share, versus $0.80 last year, which was above EVEREN's estimate of $0.62.
-- EVEREN maintains a market performer rating on the stock with a six-month price target of $50 a share, down from $57 earlier, and an 18-month target of $58, down from $62.
-- Nordson shares rose 1-1/4 to 50-3/4.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Mattel Inc chief executive officer Jill Barad said sales of toys based on Walt Disney Co's "Hunchback of Notre Dame" film would reach $100 million, falling short of "Poconotas" toy sales in 1995.
"It's true that 'Pocohontas' will outsell 'Hunchback,' although we'll do about $100 million in 'Hunchback sales,'" the recently named chief executive told Reuters. Mattel's 1995 revenue from "Pocahontas" was $140 million, analysts said.
Still, Mattel's sales of Disney-related toys this year will top the 1995 total of $450 million, Barad said.Northwest Airlines Inc said Thursday it signed a cooperative marketing agreement with Mahalo Air which will include code-sharing on flights in the Honolulu-West Maui and Honolulu-Molokai markets.
The code-share service with Mahalo, a Hawaii-based carrier, will be effective September 15. Northwest has an existing cooperative agreement with Hawaiian Airlines Inc.
Northwest's flight code will be published and sold on Mahalo's daily service between Honolulu and Kapalua, West Maui, and between Honolulu and Molokai.
The code-share service is valid for connections at Honolulu to and from cities served by non-stop Northwest flights, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Minneapolis/St. Paul and, in Japan, Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787General Motors Corp said Thursday the suggested price for its OnStar vehicle technology system will be $895 plus dealer installation and a service fee of $22.50 per month.
OnStar is available exclusively on 1997 front-wheel-drive Cadillacs. It added that service fee is guaranteed for the next two years.
The company estimated the daily cost for both the OnStar service and individual cellular phone charges will be under $1.50 or about the equivalent of a gallon of gasoline.
OnStar integrates on-board advanced vehicle electronic architecture with Global Positioning System Satellite technology and a state-of-the-art cellular phone, General Motors said.
Onstar's services include automatic notification of front air bag deployment, emergency service, theft detection and vehicle tracking, remote door unlock, roadside assistance with location and route support.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Kellwood Co said Thursday its sales for the first quarter ended July 31 declined four percent to $327.4 million from $340.6 million due to lost volume from operations that were closed or sold.
Volume was also lower from businesses that were consolidated and restructured in the second half of the last fiscal year.
It added that consumer demand for apparel remains relatively weak.
"Kellwood has responded by taking a number of steps to improve our competitive position during a soft retail ennvironment," chairman William McKenna said in a statement. "These steps include reducing overhead, more effective sourcing, and a better product mix."
He added that Kellwood, which makes and markets apparel, also has several programs and initiatives that are expected to show results in the fiscal third quarter.
"As the second half of fiscal year 1997 unfolds, we should increasingly benefit from the refocused merchandising and sourcing strategies in the restructured business units," McKenna said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.125		    $0.125
 Pay		    Oct 10
 Record		Sept 13
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Brooks Fiber Properties Inc said Thursday it would invest more than $60 million to build and operate three fiber optic networks in the White Plains, N.Y., San Mateo, Calif., and Springfield, Mo., areas.
The networks will operate under the name of Brooks Fiber Communications, competing with services offered by NYNEX Corp, Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell and SBC Communications Inc's Southwestern Bell.
With the three new systems, Brooks Fiber will have 29 U.S. networks in operation or under construction.
Brooks Fiber plans to be in 30 markets by the end of 1996 and at least 50 by the end of 1998.
Construction of the networks will begin immediately, with services expected to be offered in the first quarter of 1997.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.15		     $0.15
 Pay		   Sept 16
 Record		 Sept 3
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Ontrack Data International Inc said Thursday it filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the sale of 2.7 million shares of common stock.
Shares to be sold include 2.0 million from the company and 700,000 by selling shareholders.
Ontrack said it expects the share offering to be priced at $10 to $12 a share. After the offering, it will have 9,602,674 shares outstanding.
The shares will be sold through an underwriting group led by Montgomery Securities, Dain Bosworth Inc and Volpe, Welty and Co.
Ontrack, which offers data recovery services, said it will grant underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional 405,000 shares to cover any over-allotments.
The company said it will use proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Best Products Co Chairman and Chief Executive Daniel Levy said Thursday he expected the company's second-quarter results to be similar to the $34.6 million loss posted in the first quarter.
He also told Reuters before the retailer's annual meeting that the second quarter could be better than the first quarter ended May 4. "We could do even better," he said.
The second-quarter results are expected to be released in September.  
Levy said seeking bankruptcy protection was not under consideration. Best emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June 1994 after 3-1/2 years.
"Bankruptcy is always possible, particularly when you lose what we are going to lose in the first half of this year," Levy said. "But this is not something we are striving to do."
The Richmond-based retailer lost $95.7 million in the fiscal year ended February 3. That was the second-largest loss in the company's history.
Levy said that Best planned to open two new stores this fall. The company announced in March that it was closing seven stores and backing out of nine new lease agreements. At the time, Best said it did not plan to open any new stores this fall. It currently operates 169 stores in 23 states.
For last year's second quarter, which ended July 29, 1995, Best posted a loss of $7.1 million, or $0.23 per share, on sales of $311.9 million.Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.07		     $0.07
 Pay		    Sept 9
 Record		 Aug 29
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr primary		$0.27		    $0.27
 Shr diluted		$0.27		    $0.26
 Net			  5,818		    5,644
 Revs		     327,435		  340,625
 Avg shrs primary	21,327		   21,132
 Avg shrs diluted	21,506		   21,505
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Gruntal & Co has moved to distance itself from an essay on airline safety written by its airline analyst Steve Lewins.
"This was not authorized or approved by Gruntal, nor does Gruntal endorse the opinions and statements expressed by Mr Lewins," Randy Bradley, Gruntal senior vice president and executive assistant to the chairman, said in a brief statement dated August 21.
Lewins told Reuters the essay dealt with airline safety and offered recommendations for improved safety and security in the skies.  
The essay was not immediately available to Reuters.
Lewins declined to give details about the essay but said it was a personal assessment and was not related to his role as Gruntal's airline analyst.
Lewins also said he agreed "wholeheartedly" with Gruntal's statement and, in fact, had suggested it be written.
Bradley's statement said Gruntal has begun an investigation "and will take all appropriate actions." Bradley said Lewins continued to be employed by Gruntal, adding only, "We are reviewing the situation."
He declined to elaborate.Shares in British pharmaceutical firm Zeneca Group set a record on Thursday amid renewed rumours Swiss giant Roche Holdings AG was nursing a takeover bid but the shares fell back as analysts dismissed the chatter.
"It would have to be a very attractive deal for (Zeneca's) shareholders," Kleinwort Benson analyst Steve Putman said of a possible bid. "I think it's unlikely for now. Whether the company disappears in two years time is a different story."
The worldwide drug industry has undergone dramatic consolidation over the last two years, making any medium size company a potential takeover candidate.
But a hostile bidder would have to pay as much as 20 pounds per share for Zeneca, said Steve Abbott, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Laing.
"I don't think there will be a hostile bid. Zeneca might find a partner to merge with in a few years time and the implied price (of Zeneca's shares) after a friendly merger could be around 1750p," Abbott said.
"You could argue that Zeneca is trading at the top end of fair value," added Putman. "The company should deliver at least 12 percent earnings growth for the next five years ... and that would put it in line with U.S. drug companies."
Putman figures 18 times 1997 earnings is close to fair value for Zeneca's shares. He's forecasting pretax profits of 1.130 billion stg in 1997 and 1.255 billion stg in 1998.
Shares in Zeneca, which reached an all-time intra-day peak of 1538p, gave up their early gains, but still were holding between 50p and 100p of takeover premium, analysts said.
Zeneca, Britain's third biggest drug company, declined to comment on the takeover speculation, but only two weeks ago, Zeneca's chief executive Sir David Barnes reiterated management's intention to remain independent.
"The company has a glowing future in front of it. We are facing very strong prospects for organic growth. There is no strategic imperative to go scurrying for shelter (with another firm)," he told Reuters in an interview earlier this month after reporting a 21 percent increase in first half profits.
"Zeneca would be a big chunk for anyone to bite off. Roche could do it, but it's not Roche's style to launch a hostile bid," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"At this stage in the cycle, anything other than an agreed upon bid or a merger is unlikely. It wouldn't make sense for Roche to make an expensive and presumably dilutive acquisition," he added. "But there's no smoke without fire. I think there's something going on somewhere."
Laing's Abbott added, "That's not to say Zeneca might not find a partner to merge with in two or three years. There are a lot of smaller companies that are never mentioned that could be good partners."Hong Kong and Taiwan-based airlines are planning autumn air cargo rates increases to their home markets from European centres, air cargo sources told Reuters said.
Air Hong Kong Ltd (AHK) plans "a small" ex-Europe to Hong Kong cargo rate increase from October and may be followed by Cathay Pacific AirWays Ltd,the latter's Dutch cargo manager said.
Achim van der Graaff, in a Reuters telephone interview from Amsterdam, said the AHK increases are planned for October 1.
"These are marginal increases and I think the market can accept a slightly higher price."
"If the AHK increase are accepted, Cathay may implement similar increases," said van der Graaff.
Cathay, which owns 75 percent of AHK is also its general sales agent in the Netherlands, in Zurich and Paris.
Van der Graaff said the usual April rates review earlier this year did not result in Cathay implementing a rate rise.
AHK chief operating officer, Stanley Hui, told Reuters on August 21 that rates on routes from Europe to Hong Kong will be raised "a little bit".
Taiwanese carrier, EVA Airways Corp said in London at end-July that it is seeking an increase of five to ten percent on all of its ex-Europe to Far East routes from mid-September.
A China Airlines source said today that winter schedule rises are being considered on the routes but "we will also wait and see what the market says."
Competition on routes to Hong Kong and Taipei has been very tough, said one source from a north Asian carrier, adding that it is not really surprising that rates increases are planned, as these are needed to try and rebuild yields. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44-171-542-7706 Fax+44-171-542-5017Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Kuwait Investment Projects Company said on Tuesday it purchased a majority stake in Saudi Arabian Dairy and Food Company.
"We bought 73 percent of SADFCO from Kuwaiti investors and a Saudi investor," an official in the Kuwaiti company said. The rest of the shares are held by Saudi citizens.
The official could not give a value for the deal but he told Reuters "the purpose of the move is to expand our operations in the Gulf."
The Kuwait firm, which has a capital of 105 million dinars ($351.2 million), is a listed investment company.
SADFCO made a net profit of 70.4 million riyals ($18.8 million) in 1995 on sales of 712.8 million riyals, the Kuwait News Agency said.
The Saudi firm has six plants in the kingdom and one in Egypt and produces tomato paste, juices, ice cream, cheeses, powdered milk and light meals, the agency added. ($1=3.75 Saudi riyals, $1=.299 Kuwaiti dinars)A rapid succession of gas discoveries in Egyptian waters off the Nile Delta are making the area one of the most promising in the world for the oil industry, a senior oil company executive said on Tuesday.
"Only now are we understanding the magnitude of the opportunity," Amoco Egypt vice president Gary Bose told Reuters in an interview. "As a whole, the basin could be world class."
Amoco, one of the leading companies in the field, has made nine discoveries in the past two years. The company and its partners have identified five trillion cubic feet in the area and that could be just the tip of the iceberg.
The oil ministry said on Tuesday that another company, Petrobel/Belayim Petroleum, had found more gas in its Port Fouad concession, north of the region's first producing gas field.
Petrobel is a joint venture between the state's Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and International Egyptian Oil Company, local subsidiary of the Italian company Agip.
Amoco and its partners have invested more than $250 million in exploration scheme in Egypt since 1992, the year it won its first Nile Delta concession, and the company plans to keep pouring money in as long as its lucky streak lasts.
"Conceivably billions of dollars could be committed if our success continues," said Bose. "Drilling has confirmed significant reserves and the potential for further finds."
"We are already committed to half a billion (dollars) to developing these fields, starting this year and up to about 2002/2003," he added.
Amoco is the largest concession holder in Egypt, with a stake in 8.4 million acres (340,000 square km). It is a partner in nine concessions in the Nile Delta area.
Amoco Egypt's exploration budget alone is $50 million this year and the same amount in 1997.
The company expects to start gas production by the end of the year from its Baltim South field, initially at a modest rate of 20 million cubic feet a day.
It will simultaneously work out development plans with its partners and the Egyptian government for the Baltim East, Temsah and then the Ras al-Barr fields, Bose said.
Amoco is still trying to define the size of the Temsah field. "It may be part of a much larger contiguous field and there's the possibility of large fields in deeper water in our and in other concessions," said Bose.
Initially the gas will go to the Egyptian market, where demand is rising fast as power stations convert to gas and the gas grid reaches new domestic and industrial consumers.
"The Egyptian market is significant but EGPC and other ministries are cooperating very effectively with the contractors to look at export markets," Bose said.
Much depends on progress in the Egyptian government's gas negotiations with Israel, the natural destination for gas exports. The plan is to build a gas pipeline across northern Sinai but Egypt and Israel have not yet agreed on the price.
"Given the potential we are also looking at liquefaction for export by tanker to Europe," said Bose.Consumer Reports magazine slapped a "Not Acceptable" label on two sport/utility vehicles Tuesday, saying the light trucks "have too great a tendency to roll over in certain situations."
The magazine said the 1995 and 1996 models of the Isuzu Trooper, made by Isuzu Motors Ltd., and the 1996 Acura SLX, also made by Isuzu but sold by Honda Motor Co. Ltd., were a danger to consumers because they "tipped up high on two wheels" in road tests.
The magazine said consumers should stop buying the models, called for an immediate recall of the approximately 35,000 cars that have been sold and said repairs or replacement models should be offered by the manufacturer.
"We don't think a vehicle that has these characteristics should do what it did when subjected to this not inconceivable situation," said Bob Knoll, director of testing for Consumer Reports' auto division, in a telephone interview
A spokesman for Isuzu defended the vehicles.
"It's very important for both consumers in general and Isuzu Trooper owners to understand very clearly that the Isuzu Trooper meets all federal safety standards and regulations," Isuzu spokesman Daniel McCue told Reuters.
But Smith Barney analyst David Garrity said the report by the influential magazine could prove damaging.
"If Consumer Reports comes out and says, 'Don't buy this product,' the sales will go down," Garrity said. "You saw what happened to the Suzuki Samurai in the '80s."
The tiny Suzuki Samurai, introduced in the mid-1980s, was also the target of a Consumer Reports article alleging that the sport/utility vehicle was prone to rollovers. The campaign eventually led to the vehicle being pulled off the market.
Garrity said the report was a blow to Honda's Acura brand, which it has worked hard to cultivate. "If I were Honda, I'd demand (of Isuzu) that the problem be fixed, and I'd be more focused on developing my own product," he said.
Consumer Reports also asked the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate the Trooper and SLX and called for more stringent government oversight of vehicles with narrow wheelbases.
Government regulations currently call for all vehicles with a wheel base of 110 inches or less to carry a warning sticker stating that "sharp turns or abrupt manoeuvres" may cause the vehicle to roll over or crash.
Both the Trooper and the SLX have wheelbases of 108.7 inches.
Both companies said they were reviewing Consumer Report's test data and would look further into the matter.
Neither McCue nor Acura spokesman Mike Spencer knew of any reports from customers of their vehicles tipping or rolling over, and neither knew of any ongoing NHTSA investigation.
"We have not had an opportunity to thoroughly review the testing methodology used. Nevertheless, Acura believes the SLX is a safe and reliable vehicle when driven in a responsible manner," Spencer told Reuters.
According to Spencer, only about 1,857 SLXs have been sold since the vehicle was introduced in November, 1995.Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.
Besides Burda, with a 26-percent direct stake in Europe Online and a further seven percent in trust, shareholders included two U.S. companies, AT&T and Meigher Communications, Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
-- Lorrayne Smith, Brussels Newsroom +32 2 287 6812, Fax +32 2 230 7710Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.  
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.The near-term fortunes of Swedish car maker AB Volvo, due to post its half-year results on Wednesday, are gloomy as the group battles with falling market share and higher costs, analysts said on Tuesday.
"The European car side is very disappointing, and Volvo has not yet achieved the volumes for the new small cars (S40/V40) that it expected, so it's going to be looking pretty grim," industry analyst Robert Barber of James Capel told Reuters.
Analysts polled by Reuters forecast a fall in Volvo's pre-tax earnings to 3.37 billion crowns for the first half of 1996 compared with 3.80 billion crowns for the corresponding period last year.
In its first quarter report, Volvo said operating income would be hit by the launch of new car and truck models as well as continuing investment in product and market development.
However, analysts rejected the idea that Volvo's falling profits are mainly due to a generation shift in the car and truck operations.
"It's not all down to difficulties in the production of their new car...they're also losing some market share," Barber said.
Barber said Volvo's forecast that its European car sales will rise in the second half of 1996 is questionable in the light of a 20 percent slump in European new car registrations.
Total European car sales rose six percent over the first seven months of the year, but Volvo saw its seven-month registrations figure fall 14.6 percent to 114,894 cars.
The Swedish manufacturer's woes were compounded by a slump of no less than 35 percent in July sales, bringing its European market share to a modest 1.5 percent.
In the United States, Volvo's Truck division has been hardest hit. Intense competition and a fall in total volumes have cut Volvo sales by 31 percent in the first half of 1996 with only 9,300 trucks sold compared with 13,500 a year ago.
Some analysts see last week's replacement of Volvo Trucks' top management in the United States -- just a week before the half-year report -- as a sign of panic.
Sales have also fared badly in South America with a drop of 50 percent to 2,350 trucks, mainly due to a decline in the Brazilian market, which accounts for 70 percent of sales in the region.
Analysts were divided on whether Volvo Trucks' shrinking market share is wholly due to the launch of a new model range in the autumn.
Bjorn Germer of Sweden's Matteus stockbrokers said he did not believe the launch of a new model was the only reason for Volvo Truck's recent misfortunes.
"Everyone knows the North American market is poor right now for Volvo, we want to see (in the half-year report) how bad the sitution is there," Germer said.
BZW analyst Philip Ayton said the eyes of the market would be firmly on the trucks division when Volvo presents its half-year report on Wednesday.
"North America has been flat for cars, terrible for trucks and there's been a change of management. I don't know if that's an indication of something a lot worse in way of earnings but clearly the American truck business is in loss and has probably worsened," Ayton said.The Slovak central bank (NBS) on Tuesday said it was reviewing the holdings of steel maker VSZ a.s. in bank IRB a.s. after the firm requested central bank approval for its acquisition of over 20 percent in the bank.
"While reviewing the VSZ request, we have reqested the Securities Registry (SCP) for an official statement on VSZ's (current) holdings in IRB," a NBS spokesman, Jan Onda, told Reuters. "The only information regarding the (current) stake we have as of today is controversial, from the press."  
Onda declined to comment on the issue further.
Following Slovak securities law, VSZ submitted a request to acquire a major stake in IRB bank to the central bank a week ago.
Slovak banking law states that any merger or acquisition involving more than 15 percent of a bank's basic capital must be approved by the central bank within three months from the day request is received.
Confusion surrounds the extent of VSZ holdings, which were published by the SCP recently as being 20.66 percent. The SCP has since said the figure was "mistaken".
Under Slovak securities law, the SCP must publish the names of any entity which acquires five percent of a firm, or when its total holdings in a company break the threshold of 10, 20, 30, 50 or 65 percent.
VSZ officials have said their firm currently holds a 14.65 percent stake in IRB, but said it is expected to rise to at least 20 percent, once pending purchase agreements with other IRB shareholders are approved by the central bank.
-- Tatiana Vacova, Bratislava Newsroom, 42-7-210-3687Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Cypress Semiconductor Corp with a buy rating.
-- At 10.9 times its 1997 earnings estimate of $1.03 a share, Rodman said it believes the stock is "cheap." It projects a 12-month target price of 18-1/2, or 18 times the 1997 estimate.
-- "On a risk/reward basis, we believe that downside risk exists to $9.50 or 16 percent, and the upside is roughly 64 percent," Rodman said in a report. "This is a high-volatility, high-risk equity."
-- Cypress shares closed August 20 at 11-3/8 (corrects stock quote).
-- Rodman said Cypress reported a book-to-bill ratio of 0.74 for the second quarter, compared with the industry three-month average of 0.91. "We expect (Cypress' book-to-bill ratio) to improve in the second half as the back-to-school and holiday seasons approach," Rodman said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Period ending June 30.
			     1996			  1995
 Shr			 C$0.10		   C$0.09
 Net			  4,987		    3,568
 Cash flow/shr	     0.48		     0.45
 Revs			43,965		   37,253
		MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.26		   C$0.16
 Net			 11,598		    6,258
 Cash flow/shr	     1.05		     0.92
 Revs			86,792		   74,045
 Avg shrs		  45,090		   40,081
		  (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Tarragon Oil and Gas Ltd.
	 -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Bombardier Inc said on Tuesday that it expects to announce by the end of its third quarter 30 to 35 more firm orders for its Canadair Regional Jet.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," Bombardier spokesman Michel Lord told Reuters.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by chief executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.  
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended October 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production up to January 31, 1998. The current order backlog for the Regional Jet is 40, and Bombardier is producing the 50-seat jet at a rate of five each month.
Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
"I would say that we are talking most about North America at this time, where the market is quite active and you have large regional airlines that can order a sizeable amount of aircraft in one order," Lord said.  
Lord said Bombardier is in active discussions with airlines on ordering the Regional Jet, but he declined to name them.
"We are having a lot of serious negotiations. If only half of them materialized, we could quite well fill up our 1997 year," Lord said.
Margaret Cornish-Kehoe, analyst at ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Beaudoin's forecast was well received as it was the first time Bombardier made a specific forecast on boosting its firm order book for the Regional Jet.
"I am very happy. There is no question this is very positive," Cornish-Kehoe said.  
Some analysts had been worried in recent weeks that Bombardier had not updated its order backlog for the Regional Jet from the 40 announced several months ago. In heavy trading last week and on Monday and Tuesday, Bombardier's Class B shares recovered much of the ground lost earlier on those concerns.
Cornish-Kehoe said that during the conference call Beaudoin also said he was expecting Bombardier to announce in the next few months that it would be boosting the order book for the de Havilland Dash-8 to the extent that production volumes would be filled for the next fiscal year, ending January 31, 1998.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Newbridge Networks Corp is on track for another strong year as analysts predict 30 percent profit growth, company officials said on Tuesday after release of record first quarter results.
"We're certainly looking forward to the coming quarters," Newbridge's head of investor relations, John Lawlor, told a conference call. "From a fundamental point of view, we're well on track here.
Newbridge reported earnings per share in the first quarter ended July 28 rose to US$0.51 per share from US$0.32 per share a year ago. The results exceeded street expectations of around US$0.49 per share.
Newbridge officials said analysts were projecting earnings of US$2.17 per share for the full year. They said they believe those numbers are consistent with the guidance they have been giving to analysts.
Newbridge reported that gross margins held steady at 64.8 percent in the first quarter compared with 64.8 percent in the fourth quarter. Cash balances, however, rose C$30 million to C$486 million.
	  -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Inco Ltd said Tuesday it has won permission to buy back up to 11.5 million of its common shares or 10 percent of the current public float.
The buy-back program is to start on Friday and end no later than August 22, 1997, the company said.
Inco will not need to borrow to finance the buy-back, it said in a release.
The program will be funded partly from internal cash surpluses and partly from the proceeds of possible future asset sales.  
The main reason for the repurchase program is to help offset earnings dilution that stems from the C$4.3-billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc, Inco said.
The long-awaited move will be welcomed by Inco shareholders, some of whom expressed concern about dilution when Inco won a takeover battle last spring to buy Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
The takeover is expected formally to close on Wednesday.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996			 1995
 Shr			 C$O.25		   C$0.20
 Net			 90,300		   69,500
 Revs		   1,915,200		1,476,600
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.47		   C$0.36
 Net			167,100		   133,00
 Revs		   3,519,000		2,833,000
 Avg shrs		 335,500		  332,100
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Investors with "exploration fever" have latched onto Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd, hoping drill results expected this week will line their pockets with paper profits.
"There certainly are rumors that the results they've got from their Brazilian exploration are going to be positive," said Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at ScotiaMcLeod.
"It's all part of the current phenomenon -- exploration fever."
Black Swan was the most active stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday after heavy trading on Monday and last Friday. The stock was down C$0.05 to C$1.45 on volume of 2.6 million shares Tuesday.
But the flurry of speculative interest in the stock is not linked to anything concrete, company spokesman Richard Simpson said from the company's headquarters in Vancouver.
Drilling results from Black Swan's 50 percent-owned gold project in Brazil likely will released until later this week, he said, adding that the results are very preliminary.
"I know there'll be gold in the hole," said Simpson. "As to what grade it will be, whether it will be above or below the expectations of the market, I simply don't know. They're always looking for pretty jazzy stuff."
The rumor in the market is that the results will be good, and investors, especially institutional investors under pressure to show robust returns, are placing their bets, analysts said.
Mutual funds that burnished their performances on high returns from investments in such high-flying explorations stocks as Bre-X Resources Ltd and Diamond Fields Resources are quick to pile into junior mining shares with any hint of potential.
Although many previously Hot junior mining stocks cooled off quickly in June and July, investors seem to have forgotten their earlier rough ride, said Barry Cooper, a mining analyst at Wood Gundy.
"The 'once burned twice shy' saying doesn't work in junior gold stocks," he noted.
The attraction with Black Swan is a limited downside, since the stock has been trading around the C$1.50 mark, added ScotiaMcLeod's Ketchen.
"Whereas the upside potential, if they come up with something, can be rather impressive."
Black Swan shares its Cata Preta gold project in the Brazilian State of Minas Gerais with Sul America Mineracao Ltda, a Brazilian company.
Black Swan is in the midst of negotiating a takeover of its partner to gain a 100 percent interest in the Cata Preta and acquire Sul America's other Brazilian properties.
The drill results expected this week are from hole 23, the first of a 30-hole series expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Black Swan plans to drill a total of 150 holes to determine how much gold lies beneath a surface deposit already explored.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996			1995
 Shr			 C$0.06		   C$0.02
 Net			  2,221			677
 Cash flow/shr	     0.24		     0.14
 Revs			23,309		    9,822
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.09		   C$0.05
 Net			  3,436		    1,420
 Cash flow/shr	     0.40		     0.27
 Revs			37,356		   19,085
 Avg shrs		  39,115		   31,134
	     (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Barrington Petroleum Ltd. Second quarter 1996 results are the first to fully reflect the acquisition of Sherritt Energy Corp, which closed on May 27. Results for the period also include a one-time charge to earnings of C$570,000 in respect of an imputed interest charge.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Netscape Communications Corp's lead antitrust lawyer has written to the U.S. Department of Justice to urge that immediate action be taken against Microsoft Corp for what Netscape called "far-reaching anti-competitive behavior."
The letter, dated August 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday, is a further escalation of a battle of words between the two companies that began earlier this month as the rivals prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
Gary Reback, an outside attorney representing Netscape, also suggested in the letter that the issue be turned back to the Federal Trade Commission for further investigation.  
The eight-page letter accuses Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers (ISPs), systems integrators and large corporations providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 screen."
The Netscape counsel said these inducements were made on the condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser."
A browser enables PC users to access the World Wide Web.  
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and Microsoft are introducing new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Netscape, which pioneered browser technology and surged on to the public stock market with a stellar initial public offering in August 1995, holds the lead with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide browser market.
But Microsoft, whose Windows systems dominate the personal computer market with about a 90 percent share, has moved quickly to gain an estimated 10 percent browser share.  
It said Monday that more than one million users have downloaded its latest Internet Explorer version in its first week of availability.  
The software, known as Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its own Navigator software.
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Netscape and Microsoft are already well along the way to developing the next version of their browser software.  
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with the Redmond, Wash.-based software company, said the alleged practices went far beyond those that had been addressed in a consent decree agreed by Microsoft and the Justice Department two years ago.
"Microsoft's behavior is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.
Reback said in an interview a number of companies had "started coming out of the trees" with compliants since a war of words began between Netscape and Microsoft two weeks ago.  
Reback urged the Department of Justice to investigate what Netscape believes was illegal conduct by Microsoft, saying the department could do so swiftly. He said many small Internet companies "now face the threat of elimination from the market by reason of Microsoft's illegal conduct."
The attorney also suggested the department's antitrust division return the matter to the Federal Trade Commission, which he said has taken a recent interest in the subject.
"In any event, we are requesting immediate attention," he said. "Time is of the essence. We know that the antitrust division has an open file with respect to Microsoft."
-- sam.perry@reuters.com, Palo Alto Bureau, +1 415 846 5400Poland's ombudsman on Tuesday challenged in court the government's handling of this year's tenders in which two international consortia gained licences to develop modern GSM cellular telephone networks.
Ombudsman Tadeusz Zielinski asked the Supreme Administrative Court to annul those terms of the licences which force the new cellular operators to use transmission facilities of state-owned telecommunications firm TPSA, he said in a statement.
The obligation violates the telecommunications and anti-trust laws, the ombudsman's spokesman Stanislaw Wilenski told Reuters.
"The licence prohibits using transmission lines other than those belonging to TPSA..., while there are at least three other enterprises which have transmission infrastructure," he said. "Thus TPSA's monopolist position was supported."
Apart from TPSA, transmission services can also be provided by the state-owned Polish Power Grid and the State Railways.
GSM licences were awarded in February to Polish and foreign consortia named  Polska Telefonia Komorkowa (PTC) and Polkomtel SA.
PTC groups, among other firms, Polish trading company Elektrim, US West of the United States and DeTeMobil, part of Deutsche Telekom.
Polkomtel comprises Polish firms including the copper combine KGHM and Petrochemia Plocka refinery as well as two major Western partners -- Tele Denmark and Air Touch.
Both companies plan to launch operations this year in some larger cities. They will compete with the current sole cellular operator Centertel SA, which uses an older analogue system.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Savings Bank, one of the leading banks in Estonia, on Tuesday said it has started quoting shares in the leading commercial banks in fellow Baltic states of Latvia and Lithuania.
Savings Bank dealer Charlie Viikberg said the bank was now quoting shares of leading Latvian bank Unibanka and the shares and global depositary receipts of key Lithuanian commercial bank Vilnius Bank.
"They are interesting for Estonian investors also," Viikberg told Reuters, but noted that it was difficult to get hold of Vilnius Bank stock in Lithuania as it was not very liquid.
Vilnius Bank recently became the first Soviet state to launch GDRs and they are quoted in Luxembourg.
News agency Baltic News Service (BNS) said Estonian bank Hansapank already quotes Unibanka and Vilnius Bank.
Viikberg said that his bank did $50,000 of business in Vilnius Bank's GDR today but nothing in Unibanka.
-- Riga Newsroom +371 7 22 66 93Serbia's Sartid Steel Works has raised production to pre-sanctions levels, producing over 200,000 tonnes of iron and steel in July, the Iron and Steel Industry Association said on Tuesday.
"Production in July almost reached the optimum use of capacity as it did in 1989 when it was 85 percent," Savo Markovic of the Association told Reuters.
In the first three months this year production was insignificant as the company prepared to resume production in the wake of war-time sanctions, he said.
In July Sartid, based in the east-Serbian town of Smederevo, produced 63,000 tonnes of iron, 74,000 tonnes of steel and 80,000 tonnes of finished products.
Sartid fired its furnace in March, and from April to the end of July produced a total of 228,000 tonnes of iron, 222,000 tonnes of steel and 222,000 tonnes of finished products.
"This production is quite good considering Sartid stopped producing iron and steel at the beginning of 1993," said Markovic. "It is even above expectations."
Sartid received about $122 million in credits in the past six months to kick-start the plant -- mostly from Swiss banks.
The money stabilised production at an average of 75 percent capacity with only one of four blast furnaces operating. Under the embargo plant ran at a mere 15 percent of its capacity.
Sartid's chief executive Dusan Matkovic last week said the plant's exports rose to $1 million a day after almost four years of idleness under the international trade embargo.
"Sartid must export and pay back its debts," Markovic said. "It cannot sell all its production on the domestic market."
The domestic market can absorb only about 15 percent of the plant's output as the republic's metal industry -- the main consumer of Sartid's products -- is still sluggish.
As much as 95 percent of Sartid's raw materials are imported -- crippling the factory during sanctions.
Sartid, according to Matkovic, plans to start its second blast furnace by the end of 1997. Its annual production then would rise to two million tonnes of steel. -- Gordana Kukic, Belgrade Newsroom, +381 11 222 4254Slovenian state-owned brown coal mine Zagorje said on Tuesday it had stopped production and started closing down all operations due to soaring costs which have left the mine reeling from losses.
"We are closing in line with the government's plan, according to which the mine will be closed by the year 1999," chief executive Matej Pozun told Reuters.
Zagorje is one of three brown coal mines that were scheduled for closure this year due to high production costs.
"Our coal production was too expensive and simply not competitive anymore. Apart from that, Slovenia, like other countries, is switching to ecologically friendlier energy sources like gas and oil," Pozun said.
He said the mine stopped being profitable over a decade ago and has regularly received state subsidies over the past 18 months.
At its peak in the early 1960s, the mine employed over 2,400 and produced up to 660,000 tonnes of coal per annum.
But by 1995, production slumped to 70,000 tonnes while the workforce totalled just 418. -- Marja Novak, Ljubljana newsroom, 386-61-125-8439RAO Vysokoskorostnye Magistrali (VSM or High-Speed Railways) will make a second 240 billion rouble one-year government-guaranteed bond issue in September, a company official said on Tuesday.
VSM plans to send the prospectus for approval to the finance ministry and central bank in the first week of September, deputy finance director Andrei Nikandrov told Reuters.
Approval is likely to take one week, he said.
The company is raising funds to build a high-speed Moscow-St Petersburg rail link.
VSM issued 120 billion roubles of government-backed bonds on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange at the beginning of the year. The securities are effectively the same as Russian OFZ interest-bearing government bonds.
OFZ bonds pay quarterly interest linked to the yield of current issues of GKO discount treasury bills.
The proceeds of the first issue went to start work on a railway terminus in St Petersburg, clearing the construction site, Nikandrov said.
Russia recently approved a $200 million British loan for constructing the terminus by U.K. construction company Taylor Woodraw Plc.
--Julie Tolkacheva, Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520Banks in the Uzbek capital Tashkent said on Tuesday the government had ordered them to stop paying out cash in the national sum currency for the rest of this month, but official sources denied such an order existed.
"They gave us an order to stop paying out cash until the beginning of next month," a spokeswoman for Uzpromstroibank, told Reuters by telephone.
She said accounts held in sum had been frozen temporarily but she had no information as to whether foreign exchange accounts were affected.
A source at another bank, Pakhta Bank, also confirmed the order but could give no further details.
Late on Monday, Interfax news agency quoted a senior finance ministry official as saying cash operations had been suspended to allow the authorities to pay wages to agricultural workers. There is a shortage of cash banknotes in Uzbekistan.
A spokesman at the Central Bank of Uzbekistan denied such an order existed. "We know nothing about this order," he said.
--Chris Bird, Almaty newsroom, +7 3272 509410Mexican cement giant Cementos Mexicanos grabbed a bigger stake in Colombia's market Tuesday with the purchase of Industrias e Inversiones Samper in a deal worth more than $275 million, trading sources said.
Carlos Caballero, president of the Bogota stock exchange, said 275 million shares in the troubled Colombian cement maker, founded in 1909 and the country's oldest,  were sold at auction late Tuesday at $1.08 per share.
The buyer, ostensibly, was Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA. But Caballero said the winning bid had been placed on behalf of Cemex.  
"It was Cemex," Caballero told Reuters in a telephone interview.
A spokesman at Cementos Diamante, another Colombian cement maker that Cemex purchased in May, declined immediate comment on the deal, saying only that a statement would be released later Tuesday.
But Caballero said Cemex's purchase of 275 million shares in Samper gave it a 93.6 percent stake in the company. He added that Cemex had agreed to pay for 55 percent of the shares directly and the remainder with a foreign credit.  
Until Tuesday's sale, a 75 percent stake in Samper had been held by Colombian financier Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo.
Samper, which fell on economic hard times in the late 1970s, is currently protected from its creditors under Colombia's bankruptcy laws.
It reported 163.6 billion pesos in assets at the end of the first quarter, however, and a net profit of 1.6 billion pesos.
With Cemex's purchase, and earlier grab for Diamante, trading sources said the Mexican cement giant is now set to become a dominant player in the Colombian cement market, which has enormous potential for growth given the country's crumbling infrastructure and an expected surge in oil revenues next year.
The current slowdown in Colombia's construction industry is also widely expected to end next year.
-- Javier Mozzo, Bogota newsroom 571 6110473.The Mexican Rice Council is firmly against the lifting of a four-year ban on Asian rice imports, the director of the private sector grouping said Tuesday.
"We radically oppose the lifting of the embargo," Antonio Lajud told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The council represents the country's 13,000 rice growers and the 23 major businesses that control 98 percent of all Mexican rice sales.
The Mexican government is allegedly planning soon to lift the ban on Asian rice that was implemented in 1992.  
"We have not even been invited to the negotiations (to lift the ban)," Lajud said.
Talks are allegedly on-going between the Agriculture Ministry and representatives from Asian governments, including Thailand, he said.
"We are not interested in buying inferior quality rice from Thailand, or Vietnam, or wherever...if the ban is lifted we just will not buy the rice," he said.
Lajud said the council intended to mobilise the industry if the ban were eased and protest such a move. "We are just not going to allow them to lift the ban," he said.  
There will be important protests by the industry," he added.
"The ban was implemented in the first place because of the serious infestations Asian imports caused in our own rice fields...we have managed to turn that around and have our sights set on self-sufficiency," he added.
Mexico slapped import ban on Asian rice back in 1992 on phytosanitary grounds, stopping imports from Thailand, Vietnam, China and Indonesia. The government claimed it found some Asian shipments were contaminated with bacteria and insects.  
Mexico bought about 40,000 of medium grade 10-15 percent Thai white rice a year before the 1992 ban. Vietnam also sold Mexico rice in the early 1990s, largely by heavily undercutting U.S. rice prices.
Mexico consumes around 400,000 tonnes of white rice, and currently produces about half that amount and imports the other 50 percent from the United States.
"This council was founded in 1994 to bring order to the market that followed the infected imports and we have done that...now they want to return to chaos again," Lajud said, adding that Agriculture Ministry officials were refusing to answer his phone calls.
Agriculture Ministry spokesmen were not immediately available for comment.
Lajud said he had heard that the ban could be lifted as soon as August 26. Such moves are published in the government's Official Gazette, and rarely given much media publicity beforehand.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.Australian resources giant, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, said on Tuesday it was discussing with several companies the sale of its majority-owned Syama gold mine in the West African nation of Mali.
"There have been some discussions about the sale of (the mine) and they are continuing," BHP spokesman Tony Wells told Reuters.
Wells declined to comment on the value or likely price of the mine or when it was likely to conclude the sale.
Wells said South African miner Randgold & Exploration Co Ltd had expressed an interest in Syama.  
"It is one of the companies we have been holding discussions with," he said.
Syama, currently Mali's only commercial mine, has annual production of 180,000 ounces a year.
BHP shares closed on Tuesday down four cents to A$17.50.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435Qantas Airways Ltd has begun a regular air cargo service into China with the opening of a new route to Shanghai, the airline's regional general manager freight, Peter Barry, told Reuters.
Up to now Qantas had been hamstrung from carrying air cargo to and from the capital Beijing because of weight restrictions on the aircraft used, he said in a telephone interview from Singapore.
The new service is using an extended range Boeing 767 allowing six to eight tonnes of air cargo plus passengers to be carried between Sydney, Shanghai and Beijing.
The first flight to Shanghai left Sydney on Tuesday August 20, Barry said.
"We're pretty excited about because whilst it's only two flights a week, we see it as the first step of our growth in China. Business prospects are pretty healthy.
"Like everywhere else in Asia at the moment we think it's on a downward turn to a degree compared to what it has been but we think there are still pretty good opportunities," he added.
"Up to now we have carried basically zilch. Now we see an opportunity to let rip and we are quite looking forward to that. I would imagine after about a month we will be geared up and see some pretty good revenue coming out of it," Barry added.
As part of the airline's bigger presence in China, Qantas has appointed a new country manager. Shanghai-born Francis Lou has more than 20 years experience with the airline, Qantas said. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Indonesian tobacco tycoon Putera Sampoerna sharply raised on Tuesday his offer for Singapore's Transmarco Ltd as its share price surged, a move which dealers said was likely to make the bid successful.
Standard Chartered Merchant Bank Asia said on Tuesday that Miel Investment Corp, wholly owned by Sampoerna, had raised its takeover offer for Transmarco to Singapore $8.55 per share from S$6.50 bid at the weekend.
Transmarco, a trading and telecommunications firm, had suspended its share trading in mid-afternoon on Tuesday pending the announcement.
"It looks like Sampoerna is serious. I think he will be able to get more than 51 percent. Sukamto is likely to sell most of his stake to him as he might not be able to unload that much in the market," one head of institutional sales at a local brokerage told Reuters.
Indonesian-born Sukamto Sia garnered 55 percent of the company with a bid of S$6.50 per share in late 1994. He later stepped down as chairman and director and has since reduced his stake to 36.2 percent.
Sampoerna, who controls PT Hanjaya Mandala, Indonesia's largest clove cigarette maker, accumulated 8.8 million shares for a 32.1 percent stake in Transmarco by August 17. The move, made through his British Virgin Island-incorporated investment vehicle Miel Investment Corp, triggered a mandatory takeover offer.
Dealers said Sukamto was expected to bail out of Transmarco.
Sukamto is the second-largest shareholder of troubled Amcol Holdings, which is being rescued by Indonesian conglomerate Sinar Mas.
"I think Sukamto is looking to get out, now that his credibility is dented by what's happened at Amcol and banks could be squeezing him," said one dealer.
Dealers said Malaysian-owned investment company Stratford Holdings could also sell its stake to Sampoerna. Stratford has reduced its stake to 13.4 percent from 22.4 percent in recent weeks, selling 2.4 million shares for between S$4.11 and S$9.72.
Stratford bought the shares at S$13.50 each earlier in the year. Dealers said they believed some of Stratford's shares were bought by Sampoerna.
"On paper, the Malaysians could be making a loss but they could be compensated in other ways -- like future deals with Sampoerna," said a trader.
Minority shareholders, however, were more likely to sell their shares in the market as Transmarco's share price has surged above S$8.55. It hit a high of S$10 on Tuesday and was at S$9.80 when trading was suspended.
Before Sampoerna made his initial weekend offer, Transmarco shares had last traded in the open market at S$6.75.
"I think the price could keep rising and may even hit S$12 tomorrow (Wednesday)" said a dealer. Transmarco is expected to resume trading on Wednesday.
Dealers said they expected the share price to stay firmly above S$9.00, at least for the period of the offer.
But one dealer raised the concern of how long the share price could stay at such stratospheric levels.
"The key question is, who is doing the buying in the market? Funds will not be there until they know what Sampoerna intends to do with the company. At such high prices, it is not exactly cheap for punters," said the head of sales at the local brokerage.
Dealers said Sampoerna could be aiming to use Transmarco as a listing vehicle to spearhead his business in Asia.China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646Business executives from Indonesia and Netherlands arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday to evaluate Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL), a Privatisation Commission consultant said.
Zubair Ejaz told Reuters that Setiawan Djody, chairman of Setdco group of Indonesia, and J.B. Volbeda, president of PTT Telecom Netherlands, would make an assessment of PTCL, which is being privatised.
He said the executives would meet officials of the government, the Privatisation Commission and PTCL during their three-day stay.
Pakistan, which wants to sell a 26 percent stake and transfer management control of PTCL to a strategic investor, has not yet announced a date for the sale.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
"It's a good set of figures...some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said. ($1=.6466 Pound)The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Thistle Hotels strong underlying profit growth and trading performance was welcomed as the ideal springboard for its forthcoming London flotation and share offer plans, said analysts on Tuesday.
Thistle reported a near-doubling of pretax and pre-exceptional profits to 24.1 million stg. Alex Kyriakidis, analyst at consultant Arthur Andersen said the results, which showed strong growth in London and lesser growth in other regions, would "keep the market interested."  
He added that the 10 percent cut in the valuation for the hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg was also to be welcomed, despite resulting in a 87.8 million stg exceptional charge against profits and a 116.8 million deduction in the revaluation reserve.
"Thistle is using this opportunity (the float) to clean up its house and it's given the right signal to investors," said Kyriakidis.
Thistle chief executive Robert Peel had told Reuters earlier that the downward revision was in line with the rest of the sector and mainly hit hotels outside London.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's Thistle Hotels, the group behind such luxury names as London's Grosvenor and Royal Horseguards hotels, on Tuesday began the countdown to a London flotation with plans for a share offer to kick off in September.
Market watchers say a float could value the group at between one and 1.5 billion pounds ($1.5 to $2.3 billion).
Thistle plans to raise 250 million pounds in new cash through the offer. Around 100 to 150 million pounds would be used to reduce debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding room capacity, chief executive Robert Peel said.
"We would focus the money on London -- the region where we get the best returns," he told Reuters.
Thistle also announced half-year pretax pre-exceptional profits of 24.1 million pounds, a near doubling of its earnings in 1995.
But profits were hit after including a one-off charge of 87.8 million to partly account for a 10 percent cut in the valuation of its hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg.
Thistle is Britain's second biggest hotel chain, with 100 hotels, most of which are in the London area.
Its main shareholder, Brierley Investments of New Zealand, will cut its controlling 70 percent stake to less than 50 percent under the float plans, Peel said.
The other major investor, an investment arm of the Singapore government, will reduce its 30 percent stake by a similar ratio.
Small retail investors will be a key priority under sell-off plans and will be offered special benefits and discounts by the company.
"We see the retail market as two things. First, it's healthy for a company to have lots of small shareholders. Second, in a service industry we can treat them as our customer base and promote to them," he added.
Thistle said an indicative price range would be announced at the time of the share offer, which has no fixed date so far.
Some market analysts said Thistle could face some difficulty in a market which has seen a wave of flotations this year.
Conglomerate Lonrho Plc said last week that it planned to float its Princess and Metropole chains within two months with a price tag of around 700 million pounds.
Alex Kyriakidis, hotels analyst for consultants Arthur Anderson, has said that Thistle would have to price its float aggressively for a market which is already heavily exposed to an industry enjoying boom sales this year.
But Peel disagreed that demand from investors might have been dulled by earlier floats.
He also denied that a 204.6 million pound asset writedown of property values in its interim results would deter interest, despite representing a 10 percent cut in portfolio values.
The revaluation of the hotel portfolio resulted in the 87.8 million charge against profits and 116.8 million was also deducted from its revaluation reserve. ($1=.6471 Pound)P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society on Tuesday reported half year profits of 649 million pounds ($1 billion) and said its 10 billiion pound stock market flotation was on track for June 1997.
However, the society said its share of Britain's reviving housing market slipped as it took a 7.2 percent share of net mortage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview these levels were below its normal market share of around 20 percent because it had shied away from re-mortgaging which accounted for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.
The size of the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but are lured by another lenders -- reflects the low level of transactions from home movers, said Marsh.
One analyst said the slip reflected the society's pursuit of profits as it prepared for a stock market flotation and a distinction from those societies which did not intend to leave the mutually-owned sector.
Building societies are owned by their savers and borrowers who will share in the proceeds of the flotations of those societies which intend to become banks next year.
However, societies which intend to remain owned by their members say they can undercut the mortgage rates offered by their soon-to-be-banking rivals as they do not have to satisify shareholders' demands for profits.
Marsh said Halifax members -- savers and borrowers -- would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the new transfer document early next year.
They will vote on the flotation in February 1997 which means the flotation would probably take place in June, he added.
Most of the ten largest societies are seeking flotations to become banks because they say this gives them the ability to diversify from their traditional home-loan provider roots.
Halifax is already diversifing. It is in the process of merging with insurance group Clerical Medical and merged last year with rival building society Leeds Permanent.
This, along with the flotation, means further acquisitions are unlikely this year. "We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.
He said that so far this year net mortgage lending is eight billion pounds and forecasts a figure of 16 billion pounds by year-end. But that is dwarfed by the 40 billion pounds of net lending in the boom year of 1988, said Marsh.
"Transactions are still at very low levels...but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh, adding the housing market was showing signs of making a sustainable recovery which would avoid the previous boom/bust cycle.
The pick-up in the housing market has been fuelled by a low inflation, low interest environment, Halifax said, pointing to the lowest mortgage rates in Britain for 30 years.
But a further cut in the Bank of England's official 5.75 percent base rate might not feed through to mortgages.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh.
Halifax's benchmark standard variable mortgage rate is 6.99 percent, higher then the the largest remaining building society Nationwide which has a 6.49 percent rate.
Halifax said its 649 million pounds of half year profits represents a rise of six percent rise over the six month period to January 31. It is changing its year end from January 31 to December 31. ($1=.6466 Pound)Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.Power-hungry Turkey, facing energy shortages later this year, has pinned hopes on natural gas from Iran and development of its first nuclear power station on the southern coast for its long-term needs.
Recai Kutan, energy minister of the Islamist coalition government that struck a multi-billion dollar gas supply deal with Iran last week, said power generation from nuclear energy was inevitable despite environmentalist concerns.
"Nuclear power is a must for Turkey," he told a meeting of businessmen in the western city of Izmit.
"We cannot build big hydroenergy power plants every year. We must make use of our nuclear energy potential," he said in remarks carried by Anatolian news agency.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan signed the $23-billion landmark deal with Iran to get gas via a pipeline to be built from the Iranian city of Tabriz to Ankara, beginning in 1999. Turkey is to buy a total of 190 billion cubic metres by 2022.
The deal sparked controvery as it came shortly after the United States, Turkey's NATO ally, issued a law to punish companies investing more than $40 million in energy projects in Iran and Libya.
The U.S. later said it had yet to see details of the agreement to see whether Turkey was liable under the new legislation -- designed, says Washington, to punish states that back terrorism.
Ankara said a last minute change was made in the agreement not to breach the U.S. ban by deleting reference to Turkey's involvement in the building of the pipeline's section through Iranian territory.
Turkey, which uses gas chiefly for domestic use, consumes nearly nine billion cubic metres of gas annually with imports mainly from Russia. The Iranian deal will supply an initial three billion cubic metres from 1999.
Turkey is expected to produce 93.1 billion kiloWatt-hours (kWh) of power this year, up eight percent from last year, against a projected consumption of 97.5 billion kWh.
Officials said the short-term supply shortfall would be met by imports from neighbouring countries.
Ugur Dogan, energy ministry under secretary, said Turkey would soon begin electricity purchases from Iran through an existing grid with its eastern neighbour.
"We will soon buy an initial 25 megaWatts (MW) of power from Iran through existing lines. Later in the year we will raise it to 100 MW," he told Reuters. The line's capacity will be raised to 720 MW, he said.
He said Turkey was also negotiating with Georgia and Bulgaria for power imports from end-1996 or early 1997.
Kutan said Turkey was seeking to revive a 30-year-old plan to build a nuclear power plant at Akkuyu on the Mediterranean coast. Previous governments shelved the plan after protests from residents, local politicians and environmental activists.
Officials said the government would later invite an international tender to build the plant, originally designed to have a power capacity of 1,000 MW to 1,400-MW and produce up to 10 billion kWh annually -- nearly 10 percent of Turkey's needs. Its total cost is estimated at $3 to $5 billion.
Turkey had been self-sufficient in electricity for years but lack of investments blamed on a stagnant build-operate-transfer (BOT) model, led to shortages.
The obstacles were aggravated by a constitutional court ruling in early 1990s that all government deals to be carried out by consortia involving foreign companies would have to be inspected by the Council of State.
The decision has delayed at least seven power projects which would produce about 1,000 MW and were worth around $2.6 billion, according to official figures.
The government later devised an alternate model to promote production via coal-fired plants, which supplied 36 percent of national output of 86.3 billion kWh in 1995.
Earlier this year the previous government allowed private industrial companies to produce their own power and sell any surplus to the state distributor TEDAS.
Such production accounted for 10 percent of the total national power output in 1995.
Undersecretary Dogan said the government planned to re-open four coal-fired power plants in western Turkey shut down in 1994 after environmentalists won court cases.
"We are having desulphurisation units built at chimneys to minimise air pollution at those four plants. We will open them as soon as possible," he said.Rogers Communications Inc said on Tuesday it inked a deal with with MDC Communications Corp under which MDC will buy Rogers' wholly held cheque printing unit Davis + Henderson.
Davis + Henderson, the largest producer of cheques in Canada, was acquired as part of the 1994 takeover of Maclean Hunter. The deal is due to close by September 30, and is conditional upon signing a definitive agreement.  
Davis + Henderson is expected to generate revenues in excess of C$80 million in fiscal 1996, MDC said in a separate statement. The unit employs more than 750 people at seven plants in Canada and one in the United States.
The company's U.S. unit, the Check Gallery Inc, operates in the direct-to-consumer cheque business in the United States serving 900,000 customers.
MDC said the revenue from this business is growing at a rate of 50 percent per year. MDC will fund the purchase by bank facilities.
Financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.03		   C$0.01
 Net			  1,400			400
 Cash flow/shr	     0.26		     0.29
 Revs			24,600		   28,600
			   6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.05		   C$0.04
 Net			  2,700		    1,800
 Cash flow/shr	     0.50		     0.57
 Revs			50,000		   50,000
 Avg shrs		  58,000		   51,000
		 (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Biomira Inc and Neoprobe Corp said on Tuesday they signed a deal under which Biomira granted Neoprobe an exclusive worldwide license to use Biomira's radiolabeled murine monoclonal antibody MAb-170 in Neoprobe's RIGS technology for surgical detection of breast cancer.
Neoprobe plans to conduct a Phase I clinical trial involving up to 45 women who are undergoing breast conserving surgery, the company said.
Roughly 73,000 cancer patients have this type of surgery every year in the U.S. and that number is expected to rise to more than 87,000 a year in the next 10 years.  
In Neoprobe's RIGS approach, the Biomira antibody is injected into the patient before surgery.
It then attaches to the cancerous tissue and the surgeon uses Neoprobe's hand-held gamma-detecting probe to identify where the antibody has accumulated in diseased tissue which may not have been recognizable by touch or sight.
Neoprobe has received an upfront fee and will get milestone payments and royalties upon commercialization of a RIGS product using the Biomira molecule. Neoprobe has the option to license another Biomira molecule, MAb-174.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996			  1995
 Shr			 C$0.12		   C$0.04
 Net			  2,457			681
 Cash flow/shr	     0.40		     0.30
 Revs			17,436		   13,656
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.23		   C$0.10
 Net			  4,346		    1,666
 Cash flow/shr	     0.79		     0.62
 Revs			33,817		   26,658
 Avg shrs		  18,759		   17,517
		  (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Harrowston Inc said on Tuesday its 65 percent unit Marsulex Inc signed definitive deals to buy the assets of Coulton Chemical Co of Ohio and the shares of Sulconam Inc of Montreal.
The total cost of the two deals will be roughly C$128 million cash, the company said.
The acquisitions are expected to close next month following final due diligence and appropriate consents. The Sulconam acquisition is also contingent on the waived rights of first refusal by existing shareholders.
North York, Ontario-based Marsulex is an environmental services firm which provides removal services for useable sulphur by-products for the mining, oil refining and chemical industries. These by-products are converted into useable industrial chemicals including sulphuric acid, liquid sulphur dioxide and elemental sulphur and then sold.
Coulton operates plants in Toledo and Cairo, Ohio, and provides sulphuric acid regeneration services to oil refineries and chemical companies in the Midwestern U.S. market. Sulconam removes impurities from the process streams of two oil refineries in Montreal, Quebec.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Full House Resorts Inc and Dreamport Inc said Tuesday their Midway Slots and Racebook gaming and entertainment facility was approved by the Delaware State Lottery.
Dreamport is the gaming and entertainment unit of GTECH Corp.
The 35,000-square-foot facility, developed by a Full House and Dreamport joint venture, has 500 gaming devices including slot machines and a 150-seat simulcast parlor and racebook with individual television screens for players.
The Full House/Dreamport joint venture financed and developed the project, and will act as manager of the gaming facility under a 15-year management contract.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Newcor Inc said Tuesday it has a good outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter that began August 1, since customer requirements for the parts produced by the components and assemblies segment are generally strong during this period.
It added that its special machines segment assembly and ship schedules are forecast to be much higher compared with the third quarter, and start-up and integration costs will not be as high as they were in the third quarter.
Earlier, Newcor reported third quarter earnings of $0.13 a share, compared with earnings from continuing operations of $0.05 a year ago.
Newcor added that there is a "good level" of interest in its Machine Tool and Eonic divisions. As previously announced, the divisions are being sold.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Medtronic Inc said Tuesday it acquired the assets of the Sensors Business Unit of Drager Medical Electronics of Best, the Netherlands.
Financial terms were not disclosed.
The Drager sensors unit makes invasive pressure transducers, consisting of a silicon chip sensor and connector. The sensor and connector are incorporated into a catheter-shaped housing that can be maneuvered or implanted in the brain to assess cerebrospinal fluid accumulation, Medtronic said.  
Through its sensors unit, Drager Medical offers two families of catheter-based pressure-monitoring products, both designed to be compatible with modern external patient monitoring equipment, Medtronic said.
Microtransducer catheters for neurological, cardiovascular and urodynamic applications are grouped into one product family. The second features the Ventconrol MTC designed for placement in the ventricles of the brain, enabling continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid while simultaneously monitoring intracranal pressure.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Co said Tuesday it expects to improve its financial performance in fiscal 1997 and in the future.
Earlier, Knape & Vogt, which makes shelving and home furnishing and storage items, reported a loss of $0.78 a share after $0.48 in charges for the fourth quarter ended June 30. A year ago, its fourth quarter income was $0.37 a share.
Sales for the quarter were $40.3 million, up from $40.1 million a year ago.
For fiscal 1996, it earned $0.01 a share after charges, compared with year-ago income of $1.40 a share. Fiscal year sales were $163.0 million, down from $168.2 million.
"Although we are disappointed with sales and earnings in fiscal 1996, our recent actions position Knape & Vogt for improved performance in fiscal 1997 and beyond," Allan Perry, president, said in a statement. "We are taking aggressive action to revitalize sales and enhance shareholder value."
The company said one of the early benefits from its restructuring is expected to be an improvement in company-wide plant utilization. It reiterated that annual savings from the restructuring are expected to be about $0.40 a share, spread across fiscal 1997 and 1998.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Snap-on Inc said Tuesday its Snap-on Tools Co unit agreed with Penske Auto Centers Inc to provide car care and maintenance equipment for more than 800 Penske automotive service centers.
The centers are located in Kmart Corp store locations across the country.
"Our goal is to deliver a complete solution to the vehicle service industry," Branko Beronja, senior vice president, said in a statement. "This agreement demonstrates our ability to offer a full range of diagnostic, under-car and under-hood service equipment, as well as training, service and product support to the automotive service business owner."
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Dayton Hudson Corp, which reported higher second quarter earnings, said it epects to see continued improvement in the performance of its department store division.
"Our second quarter results reflect exceptional profit performance at Target and a significant turnaround in profitability at Mervyn's," Bob Ulrich, chairman, said in a statement. "We remain on track with the repositioning of our Department Store Division and continue to expect their improved financial performance in the second half."  
Earlier, Dayton reported second quarter fully diluted earnings of $0.42 a share, up from $0.11 a year ago.
Dayton said its Target division's operating profit for the quarter rose 66 percent to $240 million, compared with $144 million a year ago. Target's total revenues rose 16 percent and comparable store revenues gained seven percent.
Its Mervyn's division had a rise in operating profit in the second quarter to $54 million from $3 million, although  sales dropped three percent and comparable-store sales fell five percent.
The department store division had a drop in second quarter operating profit to $10 million from $24 million. Total revenues fell two percent from a year ago and comparable-store revenues declined four percent.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787(In thousands except per share data)
     Three Months Ended June 30,	    Year Ended June 30,
		  1996     1995  % Change   1996    1995  % Change
 Net sales   $69,988 $62,514    12%   $291,766 $269,306     8%
Cost of sales
		  53,219  52,944     1%    229,262  208,176    10%
Gross margin
		  16,769   9,570    75%     62,504   61,130     2%
Restructuring
   Charge	   --	--     --	5,212	 --     --
Operating income (loss)
		   3,486  (1,051)  432%	4,601   15,641  (71%)
Net Income
   (loss)	1,473 (1,252)   218%	  337    8,221  (96%)
Earnings (loss)
    per share   0.09  (0.07)   229%	 0.02     0.49  (96%)
Average shares outstanding
		  16,820  16,820     --     16,820   16,820     --
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787The Austrian unit of Swedish furniture retailer IKEA said on Tuesday it planned to open two new outlets in Austria within the next two to three years.
Company spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters IKEA Austria was looking to build new stores in northern Vienna and the western city of Innsbruck to complement the country's existing three IKEA stores.
"Plans for the buildings themselves do not yet exist but we have concrete plans to build them," spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters.
No details of the planned investment in the new stores were immediately available.
Losert said the Innsbruck site had already been purchased, but the company was still looking for an appropriate site in northern Vienna. She said the Innsbruck sales floor would cover an area of 9,000 to 10,000 square metres. No details of the future Vienna outlet were available.
-- Vienna newsroom +43 1 531 12 257Metals firm Metaleurop said on Tuesday it planned to restart lead production at its Nordenham smelter in Germany in early September.
"We are aiming for a restart in early September. That is what is planned and there have been no changes so far," a company spokeswoman told Reuters.
Metaleurop, a subsidiary of Preussag, announced in late July it was closing down the smelter to make technical modifications after some months of experience with its new bath technology.
The smelter started producing lead in March.  
Metaleurop had said output at the new 90,000 tonne plant was to be limited to 70 percent of capacity during the first 12 months of operation.
The spokeswoman said the production target may be adjusted after the restart.
Because of recurring technical problems Nordenham had been producing less lead than initially expected, she said.
Asked if this meant Nordenham would not meet its initial output target for the first 12 months of operation, she said, "We should be below our target but at this stage we cannot say by how much."
Deliveries to customers have not been affected by the closure as Metaleurop was able to secure lead mainly from its Noyelle-Godault plant in France.
Because of a traditional slowdown in orders during the summer, the company did not need to buy extra lead on an already tight physical market, she said.
-- Dominique Vidalon, Paris newsroom +331 4221 5432Phoenix airport officials said they foresee an air cargo boom from new non-stop European services from Britain and Germany.
Phoenix Airport marketing director Ann Hastings said cargo has risen 39 percent so far this year and she expected still higher annual growth.
Cargo volumes at Phoenix, the 17th busiest passenger airport in the world, grew 11.3 percent to 286,666 US tons in 1995.
Hastings told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "As we work in Europe to gain more carriers, cargo will grow."
British Airways now flies daily from Gatwick and LTU will start a weekly Duesseldorf to Phoenix in November.
"Cargo has been a small area of our business because freight was trucked to Los Angeles to the freighters for Europe and Asia," Hastings said.
"We know from business clients they want to ship more from Arizona because they would save money and time," she added.
"British Airways has been surprised at the amount of cargo they can get for Phoenix. They have more committed than they can handle."
Companies in nearby Sun Valley include Honeywell Inc, Intel Corp, Motorola Inc and McDonnell Douglas Corp, she noted. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM NV as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish construction and real estate group Skanska is forecast to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns for the first half of 1996, a Reuters poll of eight analysts found on Tuesday.
This compared to a profit after financial items of 1.72 billion crowns in the same period a year ago.
Forecasts for the six months to June 30, 1996, varied between 2.80 billion crowns and 3.33 billion with a median of 3.10 billion crowns.
For the full year, analysts forecast an average profit after financial items of 4.25 billion crowns.
Forecasts varied between 4.00 billion and 4.50 billion crowns.
Skanska is due to release its half year profit on August 22.
  (MLN SKR)		 AVG	  MEDIAN	 RANGE
 H1 Profit after fin    3,099	3,199     2,800- 3,326
 1996 profit after fin  4,249	4,288     4,000- 4,500
 H1 sales		  22,180	22,500   19,700-24,900
 1996 sales		44,280	43,000   37,700-50,000
-- Anette Moller, Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1008Swedish mining company Trelleborg AB reports for the six months to June 30, 1996 compared with a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		    657 vs    954
 Sales					10,618 vs 11,100
 Operating profit after deprec	   511 vs    721
 Operating costs			   9,719 vs  9,993
 Operating profit before depreciation  899 vs  1,107
 Depreciation				  388 vs    386
 Operating profit after deprec	   511 vs    721
 Net interest income		 CREDIT 89 vs    270 CHARGE
 Currency difference		 CREDIT 15 vs     13 CHARGE
 Share in other company results	   52 vs    515
 Tax					     182 vs    309
 Minorities					0 vs	9
 Net profit				    475 vs    636
 Shr (crowns)				 4.05 vs   5.40
NOTE -- Trelleborg AB is a Swedish mining and minerals group.
A Reuters poll found analysts expected the company to report a profit after financial items and costs of 700 million crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Portuguese state-controlled cement group Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal has potential to invest up to 250 billion escudos ($1.6 billion) in foreign acquisitions up to the year 2001, a company source said on Tuesday.
The source said the investment plan depended on Cimpor's ability to maintain cash flow and not to allow debts to reach 30 percent of total assets. Cimpor has negligible debt now.
"We will only make the investment if we find the right opportunities," the source told Reuters.
"We would be interested in making an investment if the expected profit exceeded the capital costs. We are looking for interesting opportunities for investment."
Cimpor would seek possible investments after the scheduled privatisation of a 45 percent stake in the company expected in October, the source said.
Cimpor was considering Spain, South America, and northern and southern Africa as potential areas to acquire cement manufacturers, the source added.
This month Cimpor bought Moroccan cement firm Asment Temara for 11.8 billion escudos ($77 million).
It also owns a subsidiary in Spain, Corporacion Noroeste, and in Mozambique, Empresa de Cimentos de Mocambique.
Cimpor shares stood at 3,370 escudos, up five, in volume of 10,750 shares on Lisbon bourse in early afternoon trade.
-- David Brough, Lisbon newsroom +351-1-3538254Heavylift Volgadnepr Airlines said it will be operating three Antonov 124 charter flights between Chateauroux and Ulyanovsk early next month carrying vehicles taking part in the Paris-Moscow-Peking Master rally.
"Three flights are scheduled for September 7 and 8, with approximately 40 jeep-type vehicles, 10 trucks and between 20 and 30 motorcycles being shipped," a Heavylift official told Reuters.
The AN-124 aircraft can carry up to 150 tonnes and the Chateauroux-Ulyanovsk charters will also transport helicopters to be used in the television coverage of the rally and broadcasting equipment, the official added.
The rally will start at the Trocadero -- near the Eiffel Tower in Paris -- where the vehicles and motorcyles in competition will undergo techincal check-ups before travelling down to Chateauroux to take part in a prologue event at the airport, a Chateauroux airport authority official said.
"The rally's organisers were impressed by the uncongested facilities at the airport coupled with the length of the runway, a package which enabled us to beat off competition from the Paris airports, Lyon and Marseille," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year earlier.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		 1,567  vs  1,395
 Pct of invoiced sales		   12.7  vs   11.9
 Invoiced sales			  12,374  vs 11,687
 New orders				12,982  vs 12,622
 Operating profit after deprec	1,491  vs  1,294
 Pct of invoiced sales		   12.0  vs   11.1
 Operating costs			 10,500  vs 10,062
 Depreciation				 383  vs    331
 Interest net				  68  vs     77
 Dividends received			   7  vs	1
 Foreign exchange difference   CREDIT   1  vs     20  CHARGE
 Taxes					  531  vs    491
 Minorities				    13  vs     15
 Net profit				 1,023  vs    889
 Earnings per shr (crowns)	     5.57  vs   4.84
NOTE -- Atlas Copco AB is a Swedish engineering group that makes compressors and industrial tools,
A Reuters poll of 13 analysts found the average forecast for Atlas Copco's half year profit after financial items was 1.52 billion crowns. The company's sales were forecast at 12.50 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday that London would be the main target in the hotelier's expansion plans after it floats on the London stock market and launches its share offer in September.
The float is expected to value the company at between one billion and 1.5 billion stg. Of the 250 million stg in new cash raised under the offer, Thistle's chief executive Robert Peel told Reuters that around 100-150 million stg would be used to pay down debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding its room capacity.Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday its stock market flotation was on track for June 1997 and its members would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the transfer document in early 1997.
The push towards conversion to bank status, plus the integration of rival society Leeds Permanent and insurance group Clerical Medical, means further acquisitions would be unlikely this year, spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview.
"We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.  
He said the society always looked at merger opportunities but would not pursue any acquisitions if they risked delaying its flotation, first announced in November 1994.
The owner-members of the mutually-owned society -- its savers and borrowers -- will vote on the flotation plans in February 1997, Marsh said, with the flotation probably in June, provided it gets the go-ahead from its regulator.
Halifax's flotation is expected to bring the biggest single boost to share ownership in Britain. With an estimated size of 10 billion stg, it dwarfs the planned flotations of the other societies intending to seek bank status.  
Marsh said the integration costs of Clerical Medical were not likely to be great and that further job cuts as a result of the merger with Leeds Permanent were not expected.
It has already said it expects to cut 200 jobs in its head office by the end of 1997 as a result of the Leeds merger.
The merger with Clerical Medical is expected to be completed by the end of the year, Halifax said.
Halifax said its financial services arm achieved 23 million stg of profits in the first half of the year, compared with seven million stg in the six months to January 1996.  
The society said it had changed its financial year end from January 31 to December 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charge for merger and integration costs.
Overall, it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.
It said its retail banking arm took 8.0 percent of new current accounts, compared with a market share of existing stock of three percent.
Growth in personal loans was 22 percent in the six months to June and the amount borrowed on credit cards grew 10 percent.  
It set up a new Halifax General Insurance unit in April 1996 to manage its general lines personal insurance and said it was gradually bringing in-house the responsibility for product design, premium collection and claims handling.
To develop a capital structure for its conversion to bank status, Halifax said it had issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
It said total assets rose to over 100 billion stg and its gross capital ratio rose from 7.99 percent to 8.64 percent.
Halifax said it had cut its cost/income ratio to 41.4 percent from 43.0 percent and said it took a 54 million stg charge for provisions, slightly up on the previous six months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday another quarter point cut in official interests would not necessarily lead to further falls in Britain's historically low mortgage rates.
Halifax, which plans a stock market flotation next year, took a 7.2 percent share of net mortgage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
This level is below its normal market share of around 20 percent, Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview, because the society has shied away from re-mortgaging which accounts for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.  
Pricing in the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but shift their lender -- deterred the Halifax from competing actively, the society said.
"Given our size and position we can stand back," said Marsh.
Halifax's much-watched house price index for the 12 months to July showed a 5.3 percent rise.
"All the signs are that the recovery is sustainable," said Marsh. "We could well see houes price inflation in the 5.0 to 7.0 percent bracket for the next year or so," he added.
Such a rise would avoid a boom and bust scenario and at last see house prices rise above the rate of inflation, said Marsh.  
Mortgage rates, at their lowest for 30 years, may not fall further even if the Bank of England cuts its official 5.75 percent official base rate.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh, although he said Halifax would look to see how its competitors reacted to such a cut.
"(Mortgage rates) are at or around their trough," said Marsh.
The size of the re-mortgage market is accounted for the by the low level of transactions -- home movers -- in the market.  
"Transactions are still at very low levels....but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh.
So far this year net lending is eight billion stg, which the Halifax forecasts will reach 16 billion stg by year end. That compares with 40 billion stg in the boom year of 1988, he said.
He said Halifax's profits in the first half of the year would have been 64 million stg higher if the society had not written off its mortgage incentives -- discounted rates and cashbacks -- straight away.
Halifax said it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.  
Before exceptionals that was a six percent rise compared with the six month period to January 31.
Halifax said it had changed its year end from January 31 to Dcember 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charged for merger and integration costs.
The society said it was increasingly confident about the state of the housing market. "With a more disciplined marketing environment we see more profitable organic growth in mortgage lending emerging in the second half of this year and into the next," the society said.
-- Jill Treanor, London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113Mobil Corp's Australian subsidiary said on Tuesday that Gippsland crude oil was still being piped to Shell Australia Ltd despite earlier statements by Mobil that it was taking proportionally more Gippsland crude to entirely offset Shell's normal intake.
"It's not a total offset. They're (Shell) still getting some (Gippsland crude)," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
Gippsland crude oil is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.  
Shell Australia has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Mobil earlier said its Altona refinery in Melbourne had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude intake with imports. Mobil has sold a crude oil cargo that it ordered two months ago.
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1435Mobil Australia Ltd said on Tuesday its 108,000 barrels-per-day Altona refinery in Melbourne was expected to be back at around 80 percent of normal output by Wednesday morning, following the repair of its cracking unit.
"The cracker is being tested at moment and we're expecting on spec product to be produced tomorrow ... morning," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
The refinery's cracker extracts gas, gasoline, diesel and LPG products after the crude distillation proces.  
The refinery, which is currently running at 60 percent, would remain at sub-peak output until next week while repairs were carried out to one of its three distillation units, the Mobil spokeswoman said.
She said the refinery had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.
"At the moment we're running on 100 percent Gippsland crude and that's because Shell aren't taking any crude from Gippsland so we need to take their share. We've in fact just sold a cargo we had on the way," she said.  
The spokeswoman said the cargo had been ordered for the refinery two months ago but she was unable to elaborate on the cargo's size or to whom it was sold.
She also could not comment on current total daily crude oil input levels.
Gippsland crude accounts for about half of the refinery's normal crude supplies.
It is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.  
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery, which has been at partial production since August 13, took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude oil at normal operating levels.
Shell Australia Ltd has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435Carter Holt Harvey Ltd, one of the rival bidders for state-owned Forestry Corp of New Zealand, said on Tuesday it was simply outpriced by the winning Fletcher Challenge-led consortium.
"I think the essential thing was that they put the best price on the table," CHH Forests Chief Executive Devon McLean told Reuters. "It was a price that we were not in a position to reach," he said.
"We saw it as a good opportunity...at the right price. We bid as good a price as we could and we were not successful."  
McLean said CHH already had a large forest resource that was continuing to increase in terms of woodflow.
"It will increase 50 percent over the next 10 years so it is not a question of us being short of fibre. We have plenty of plans in place for further wood processing from our own estate."
CHH, just over half owned by International Paper, was in a joint venture with Maori group Te Ama Ltd and Malaysia's Jaya Tiasa for FCNZ, which has 188,000 hectares of plantation forests in the central North Island.  
The government earlier announced a sale to a consortium comprising Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments Ltd and China's Citic, for NZ$2.026 billion.
-- Wellington Newsroom (64-4-4734746)New Zealand's government is to sell state-owned Forestry Corporation to a consortium of Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments and China's Citic, a government source said on Tuesday.
He told Reuters the Fletcher consortium plans to invest NZ$16 million in Forestry Corp's Waipa sawmill and has plans for a NZ$200 million particleboard factory to be built by the year 2000.Qantas Airways Ltd is expected to fly slightly above its prospectus net profit forecast of A$237 million for the year to June 30, 1996 but analysts said 1996/97 results could hit some turbulence over current wage talks.
Australian aviation analysts expect Qantas to report an annual net profit before abnormals of between A$237 million and A$249 million. The airline is expected to pay a second half dividend of 13 cents, making a total of 16.5 for the year.  
Analysts said the Qantas result would be helped by lower costs, on which the airline has focussed since it became a publicly-owned company in July 1995.
"We have got an official figure of A$237 (million), but I really expect it to be around the A$240 to A$245 million mark and that would be largely driven by the cash flow being steered towards paying off debt," a Melbourne analyst said.
ANZ McCaughan aviation analyst Yasmin Allen expects Qantas to report a profit of A$237 million for 1995/96. "I would not be surprised to see it come in above that," Allen told Reuters.  
Another Melbourne-based aviation analyst forecast Qantas to report a net profit right on the prospectus forecast of A$237 million while one Sydney-based analyst forecast a net profit before abnormals of A$239.1 million for the year.
"They have done well on the cost reduction side and they have seen the market grow, but they have lost market share, so add all that up and I think they will come out about square," the second Melbourne-based analyst said.
Last week the Department of Transport released data showing that Qantas, including wholly-owned Australia Asia Airlines, had a 37.9 percent international market share in April.  
Qantas, which is 25 percent owned by British Airways Plc, forecast in its 1995 prospectus that its international market share would be 41.1 percent for the June 30, 1996 year.
Qantas, known as the 'flying Kangaroo' estimated a one percentage point variation from this forecast would affect the bottom line profit by A$48 million.
However, analysts said they were more interested in comments about Qantas' outlook for the 1996/97 year, as costs may increase, arising from current wage talks, renewed domestic competition, and continued pressure on international routes.  
Qantas has offered an eight percent pay rise over two years over two years on condition that productivity reforms are implemented, but unions want productivity gains to be rewarded by a wage rise over and above the eight percent offer.
Qantas shares took a dive to a record low of A$1.87 on July 24 as the market got the jitters that management had conceded to union pressure and award a wage rise above eight percent.
The unions initially made a claim for two consecutive annual wage rises of 10 percent but last month, Qantas chief executive James Strong said this claim would wipe out the airline's profit if successful.  
Qantas shares have now moved back to familiar territory and on Tuesday were trading at A$2.17.
Analysts expect Qantas to report a net profit before abnormals of between A$260 million to A$273 million for 1996/97, but some analysts said they would be ready to mark down these numbers if there were some very negative comments from Qantas.
They said the planned purchase by Air New Zealand Ltd of a 50 percent stake in local airline Ansett Airlines Ltd may pressure the 1996/97 results  
"People have known what 96 will look like but 97 is going to be a different story for a whole mix of things and there should also be some impact from a combined Ansett/Air New Zealand when that starts to happen later this year," the Sydney analyst said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373 1800A century after live ostriches were first brought to Australia for the millinery trade, a new industry is tempting the Asian market with ostrich sashimi, ostrich stir fry and ostrich steak.
Like camels and water buffalo, Australia's ostriches began to run wild after demand for their services -- in this case, for feathers for hats --- was killed by changing fashion.
Now they have been rounded up, new birds have been imported and a breeding programme has increased the number of Australian ostriches to about 60,000 from 45,000 a year ago.
First exports of Australian ostrich meat have begun to Singapore, Japan and Hong Kong in 500 kg (1,100-lb) shipments.
Exports also have also been made to the United States and strong inquiries are being received from Europe, says Chas Dale, general manager of Australian Ostrich Co Ltd (AOC).
Dale says he can only guess at how big ostrich meat exports might become. But in aiming for a niche in Asia's food trade, prospects for ostrich farming are bigger than ever.
"Its potential is on a giant scale," Gary Allen, chairman of AOC, told Reuters.
The AOC started regularly processing ostriches only in July and the company believes it will take a couple of years before the Australian industry completes the transition from breeding to commercial operation.
The commercial stage will be reached when the industry has about 30,000 breeding hens, compared with less than 10,000 breeders at present, Dale said.
About 4,000 Australians now have some form of investment in the industry, the membership of the Australian Ostrich Association has grown to about 2,700 members, and an Ostrich Odyssey '96 convention in Adelaide featured what AOC describes as "a far sighted, ambitious agribusiness plan".
The main focus is on ostrich meat, but the industry is also aiming to provide premium leathers, oils and by-products.
Where is ostrich meat's market edge when AOC sells at A$35.00 a kg, more than double the price of a prime beef steak?
And why would Asia go for Australian ostrich meat rather than the South African original?
Dale admits ostrich meat is not cheap, describing it as near the top of the restaurant price scale.
But there is increasing recognition of health value, with ostrich meat at only 0.5 percent fat, he said.
Furthermore, tenderness made ostrich sashimi "absolutely beautiful," while Singapore was delighted with a stir fry ostrich combination, he said.
So far Australian ostrich meat exports are mainly for traditional Western steak-type meals. But AOC is working with Asian tasters to find out what this huge market wants.
AOC's target is exports of about 100 tonnes of ostrich meat over the next 12 months.
Australian ostrich producers believe they will establish leadership in Asia by focusing on the region and meeting its unique culinary tastes, not simply supplying bulk meat.
The native South African ostrich is very different from Australia's big bird, the emu, which is mainly farmed for its body oil.
Ostrich meat is not as gamey as emu, ostriches have two toes, emus three, and ostriches are about three times bigger.El Al Israel Airlines is considering using a Boeing 747 aircraft for its weekly Tel Aviv to Hong Kong service, providing another seven tonnes of cargo capacity and a non-stop service, the carrier's general manager for China, Hong Kong and east Asia, Abraham Roter said.
He was speaking to Reuters in a telephone interview from Beijing.
An informal air services agreement currently exists between the two countries which allows the Israeli flag carrier to offer a once weekly service on Thursdays from Hong Kong to Tel Aviv with a refuelling stop in Tashkent.
Roter said the airline is now considering a Boeing 747 -- instead of the current Boeing 767 -- which would increase cargo capacity from 10 to 17 tonnes and be non-stop from Tel Aviv. But he said the return flight would have a stop, possibly in Bombay.
"The route is getting better and we could utilise better capacity for the passenger. Negotiations towards a bilateral agreement have been going on for almost a year between the two governments. They have still to be signed but that is a formality," Roter said.
"We would like to intensify our operation in the Far East because we believe there is tremendous potential here. And with the continuation of the Middle East peace process we can see a big market for tourism in the eastern Mediterranean for people from this part of the world," he added.
El Al now fly to six Asian destinations: Hong Kong, Beijing, South Korea, Bangkok, Delhi and Bombay.
A Hong Kong government spokeswoman confirmed that talks had taken place between Israel and Hong Kong to review the current informal arrangement. She said a formal air services agreement is not needed for El Al flights to continue after next year's Hong Kong handover to China.
"We have informal agreements with many other countries of which Israel is one and it has been reviewed. There may have been changes to the confidential memorandum of understanding between the countries but even if it had been changed it would not be disclosed," she said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS) unveiled ambitious plans on Tuesday to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subsidiary of telecoms giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.  
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system would also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through its gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system, noting that the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.  
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations that will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said the company is considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.The contract backlog of Philippine construction giant DMCI Holdings Inc rose sharply to 8.1 billion pesos as of August this year due to the flurry of construction activity in the country, an official of the company said on Tuesday.
"Our contract orders has risen to 8.1 billion pesos as of August from only 2.2 billion pesos as of June 1995," the official told Reuters in a phone interview.  
DMCI's share price jumped 75 centavos to close at 17.75 pesos on Tuesday on talk of the robust growth in the firm's contract backlog.
"The sharp increase in our contract orders indicates the level of construction activity in the country and DMCI's increased construction capability," the DMCI official said.
The increase in DMCI's construction capability could be gauged from the rise in its manpower to 16,000 from 9,000 last year, she said.
--Manila newsroom (632) 841-89-36, fax 817-62-67Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.Chip producer Austria Mikro Systeme International AG said on Tuesday it expects parent sales and earnings in the second half of 1996 to be on a par with those posted in the first six months.
Earlier, AMS reported parent first-half sales of 710.4 million schillings versus 814 million, pre-tax of 128.35 million versus 102.15 million and net profit of 102.33 million versus 102.15 million.  
"Sales in the second half will not stand out because of any extreme hikes," chief executive Horst Gebert told Reuters. -- Vienna newsroom, +431 531 12274Dutch financial services group Internationale Nederlanden Groep NV is expected to announce a leap of up to 32 percent in net profit on Thursday, August 22, with banking outstripping insurance in earnings growth.
Analysts polled by Reuters estimate net profits in the first half of calendar 1996 at between 1.46 billion and 1.56 billion guilders, compared with 1.18 billion a year earlier.
They said the growth rate was largely the result of the 42 percent surge in first quarter profits, when banking activities in emerging markets such as Latin America bounced back from losses in the same period of 1995.
"In the second quarter they faced a far more difficult comparison base, particularly on the banking side," said Heinie Hakker at BZW Nederland.
Analysts see profits before tax from banking as high as 1.09 billion guilders, a gain of 46 percent from the first half of 1995, with most of this increase coming in the first quarter.
Interim pre-tax insurance profits are forecast to have risen by between 11 and 17 percent to between 1.10 billion and 1.16 billion.
Analysts were divided however over whether Barings, the British merchant bank bought for 1.7 billion guilders in March 1995, would be profitable after interest charges.
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said ING's banking activities benefitted from many of the same factors as rival ABN AMRO's, such as buoyant financial markets.
But he added: "The insurance activities are having a dampening effect on the result."
Pluijgers said he would be interested in whether ING made more provisions for future costs, including losses on aircraft leasing, after making no such allowances in the first quarter.
Bart van der Feen de Lille of IRIS Research said ING's trading and commission income would have grown strongly but not as fast as at ABN AMRO, which has a greater relative exposure to equities markets and less to bond markets than ING.
ABN AMRO last week posted a 36 percent jump in interim net profit at 1.7 billion guilders, helped by booming share markets which boosted trading income and fees from share offerings.
CS First Boston analyst Kishore Banger said ING's first quarter profits were exceptional because of banking but he saw insurance providing a solid increase in the second quarter.
He also expected double digit growth in insurance profits in the first six months of 1996.
"Where's there's scope for a surprise (in the half year), it's on the banking side," Banger added.
-- Garry West, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS
20/08 Van Ommeren	H1	   43.3   38.8-48	 38.7
20/08 Pakhoed	    H1	   58.8     55-63	 62.0
21/08 Nedlloyd	   Q2	  -10.8    -20- 0	 19.0
22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas. -- Amsterdam newsroom, +31 20 504 5000 (FAX 31-20-504-5040)French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux has agreed to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds ($619 million) on replacement trains over the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds ($194.3 million) in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds ($4.3 million).
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds ($55.3 million) per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds ($187.2 million).
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds ($38.7 million) on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks.Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
A joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said. These will then be incorporated into a final filing to respective governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, he said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.Industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average UK domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46.36) per year in 1997, rising to to over 50 pounds in 2001.  
These final proposals follow a draft released in May when the watchdog said TransCo, which is British Gas biggest moneymaker, should cut charges between by 20 to 28 percent in the year from April 1997, and by five percent thereafter.
"If the proposals are accepted (by British Gas), TransCo's customers will benefit from substantial price cuts from April 1997 and continuing real price reductions in the following years," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode said.
British Gas said in an initial reaction to the long-awaited decision that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject the proposed regime. "We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
Shares in British Gas initially rose on the news and were indicated 10 pence higher at 208 before the official start of trading on the London Stock Exchange.Privately-owned Qatar Airways will take delivery of its fourth Boeing 727 next week, chief executive Sheikh Hamad bin Ali bin Jabr al-Thani said on Wednesday.
"The used aircraft was purchased last month. It is coming next week," Sheikh Hamad told Reuters, adding that it was bought from General Electric Co's leasing subsidiary General Electric Capital Aviation (GECAS).
He did not give the cost of the new plane.
The 727 will bring the two-year-old carrier's fleet to six -- four 727s and two 747s. Sheikh Hamad said the airline had in June sold its third 747 to a private buyer.
The airline has long-term plans to increase its fleet.
"We are planning to take the narrow-bodies up to six and also add a freighter. We are actively in the market discussing with various leasing companies," he said.
"It continues our plan to make Doha one of the important air locations in the Gulf," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Netscape Communications Corp.'s lead antitrust lawyer has written the Justice Department urging it to take immediate action against Microsoft Corp. for what he characterised as "far-reaching, anti-competitive behaviour."
The letter demanding "immediate attention" was dated Aug. 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday. It represents a further escalation of a battle of words between the rival companies that began earlier this month as they prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
Gary Reback, the outside attorney representing Netscape, also suggested in the letter to Deputy Assistant Attorney General Joel Klein that the issue be turned over to the Federal Trade Commission for further investigation.
The eight-page letter accused Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers, large corporations and others providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 (opening) screen."
Reback says these inducements were made on condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser." A browser enables computer users to access the Internet's World Wide Web.
The letter said Netscape had "uncovered numerous additional steps that Microsoft has taken for the purpose of eliminating competition in the Internet software markets," including predatory pricing and bundling of products.
Microsoft spokeswoman Claire Lematta dismissed the letter, saying it "appears to be full of wild and unsubstantiated statements."
"It looks to us like a marketing document masquerading as a legal document," she said. "Netscape must be feeling the competitive pressure."
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and the Redmond, Wash.-based software giant introduce new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape, an early leader in browser technology, holds the lead in market share with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide market.
But Microsoft, whose Windows systems are found in about 90 percent of personal computers, has moved quickly to gain an estimated 10 percent of the browser market and says more than 1 million people have downloaded its latest browser ,version.
That software, Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its browser, Navigator 3.0
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Microsoft and Netscape are also already well along the way to developing the next versions of their browsers.
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with Microsoft, said the alleged practices went far beyond those which had been addressed in a consent decree reached by Microsoft and the Justice Department just two years ago.
"Microsoft's behaviour is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.A potentially cost-saving dairy cattle feed invention unveiled on Wednesday strengthened Finnish Raision Tehtaat Oy's image as an innovative food group and was immediately reflected in its share price, analysts said.
"The company's image has strengthened significantly within one year," Finnish Aktia Bank analyst Ritva Ojala told Reuters, referring to the company's new invention and Benecol, a cholesterol-reducing margarine Raisio launched early this year.
That has helped its stock rise by more than 400 percent in one year.
Raisio said it had developed and patented a feed mix formula containing an amino acid called histidine which could cut the cost of feeding dairy cattle by reducing the need for protein. It said it could be commercially viable in the next few years.
It said six grammes of histidine had the same effect on milk output as one kilogramme of protein feed.
"Raisio has done successful reseach in paper chemicals, but Benecol and the cattle feed finding show that the company really makes efforts to seek innovations in high volume products," Ojala said.
But analysts said it was too early to estimate the commercial prospects of the cattle feed finding.
"It remains to be seen how important it is, but we are positive towards the continued development in their R&D," said Kleinwort Benson analyst Michael Finney in London.
"We believe it is too early to upgrade our forecasts on the back of this, but we are still positive towards the share," he added.
An analyst at a Finnish bank said the dairy cattle feed discovery was still at a very preliminary stage compared to the Benecol margarine, and it may take many years until Raisio gets any commercial benefit from it.
"However, there may be potential, and every new invention in the animal feeds industry is important, since margins there have recently been under pressure due to higher raw material costs," she said, requesting anonymity.
The share market welcomed the new finding and Raisio shares rose sharply in lively trade after the announcement.
Raisio jumped to 322.00 markka before dipping back to 315,00, up 17.00, in late Helsinki dealings after heavy volumes.
---Helsinki Newsroom +358-0-680 50 248Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo posted a slightly higher-than-expected first half profit on Wednesday, prompting a sigh of relief from financial markets.
Analysts had expressed concern about Volvo's performance in the first six months as the group battled against falling market share, higher costs and a production generation shift.
But a first half pre-tax profit of 3.86 billion swedish crowns ($584.1 million) on sales of 78.06 billion crowns against 5.33 billion crowns a year ago on 85.13 billion crowns sales appeased market fears, coming in a touch higher than the forecast 3.37 billion crowns.
Although sales were largely unchanged, analysts were relieved to see the car unit back in the black in the second quarter after two red quarters and the weaker performance of the truck unit, foreshadowed last week, not as bad as feared.
"We are feeling rather good about the rest of the year," analyst Bjorn Germer from Matteus brokerage told Reuters.
Volvo's share price edged up about four crowns after the report was released but the relief quickly wore off and Volvo closed 1.5 crowns lower at 136.5 crowns.
Analysts said the first half report reflected the new slimline Volvo, which has been actively divesting since 1994 to concentrate on its core automotive businesses, spinning off units ranging from seafood to stockbroking.
"The mix of the business has changed and we are almost into a phase now where we will just look at core operations," Salomon Bros analyst John Lawson told Reuters.
"The second quarter has given a reminder of what will be a fairly constant pattern over the next couple of years."
Volvo chief executive officer Soren Gyll said the company's divestment plan was virtually complete and first half earnings benefitted from net interest income of 633 million crowns and gains of 453 million crowns on the sale of shares.
But he said in the company report that the group's structural and industrial transformation was continuing.
"The group's two largest operating sectors, Volvo Cars and Volvo Trucks, are in a period of aggressive change," Gyll said.
From the half-year results, analysts said Volvo Car seemed to be over the worst, posting an operating profit of 187 million crowns on sales of 39.83 billion crowns after two consecutive quarters of losses.
The company's new medium-sized S40/V40 models appeared to be winning market acceptance with problems of long delivery times improving.
Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson told Reuters that the unit expected to improve profitability this autumn as the S40/V40 series replaces the older 400-series.
However Volvo's truck division was stalling.
Gyll said Volvo Truck delivered a total of 33,240 medium-heavy and heavy trucks in the first six months of 1996, a 13 percent drop from 1995.
Last week Volvo announced a major cost-cutting drive and a change of top management at its truck division in the U.S., saying performance this year had been unsatisfactory and the unit had suffered substantial - but undisclosed - losses.
"A restructuring programme is under way but a significant loss is also anticipated in the second half," Gyll said.
Volvo Truck's managing director Karl-Erling Trogen told Reuters that losses in North America would continue.
Analysts were forecasting Volvo to post a full year pre-tax profit of between 5.4-6.8 billion crowns.
($1=6.608 Swedish Crown)Swedish insurer Trygg-Hansa on Wednesday reported a sharp jump in earnings for the first half of the year, saying a thorough reorganisation of the group had started to pay off.
Trygg-Hansa's pre-tax profit increased to 1.52 billion crowns ($230.5 million), a 27 percent improvement on the 1.20 billion crowns posted in the corresponding period last year.
The increase was bolstered by a 29 percent jump in profits from the non-life insurance business, and by a sharply improved return on the group's asset portfolio.
Capital gains and unrealised changes in value in the portfolio improved to 1.19 billion crowns from 848 million in the same 1995 period.
Although a fall in direct yield on shares and bonds to 729 million crowns from 834 million offset some of the gains, the total return on capital improved to 1.82 billion crowns from 1.62 billion crowns.
"It is with great satisfaction that I note that the thorough process of change that Trygg-Hansa is going through has begun to have results," group CEO Lars Thunell said in the company's interim results statement.
Trygg-Hansa has implemented an efficiency drive that it says will cut costs in its claims department alone by 200 million crowns a year.
Total operating costs for the period declined to 582 million crowns from 684 million in the first half of 1995.
Chief Financial Officer Zaid Pedersen told Reuters he was particularly pleased by the improved performance from insurance operations.
"In the longer term, it's very important that the core business does well," he said.
The improvement in the return on the investment portfolio was primarily the result of a sharp fall in interest rates over the first half, a trend that had bolstered the value of the bond portfolio and fuelled a rise in share prices.
Although the positive development in this area would continue for the rest of the year, Pedersen said investors should not expect a similar leap in the second half.
"Some of these are one-off gains here influenced by market developments. You can't multiply this result by two for the year, that would be too good, I guess," he said.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1006 ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)The loss-making North American trucks division of Swedish vehicle maker Volvo AB will break even in the first half of 1997, Volvo Trucks managing director Karl-Erik Trogen said on Wednesday.
"Our losses in North America will narrow in the first half of 1997. Some time during the first half of next year we will arrive at zero in our operating result," he told Reuters in an interview.
Volvo trucks operating result weakened sharply in first-half 1996 to 1.08 billion crowns from 2.94 billion. Trogen said a weak market and lower sales in north and south America were behind the fall.
-- Stcokholm newsroom +46 8 700 1006Profitability at Volvo Car, the biggest division of Swedish automotive group AB Volvo, will improve during autumn as its new S40/V40 car series replaces the older 400-series, Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson said on Wednesday.
"The profitability of the 400 series is useless. The S40/V40 is bringing a change of profitability that will have obvious implications," Johannesson told Reuters in an interview.
He declined to give a precise forecast for Volvo car sales for the second half of 1996 after Volvo car reported a small operating profit of 378 million crowns in Q2 1996 following two quarters of losses.
"The main reason is that we have achieved balance and managed to bring operating costs under control," he said.
The car division's sales fell 7.0 percent to 39.83 billion crowns in the first half of 1996, but new orders for its medium-sized car sector rose 11 percent thanks to the introduction of the new series.
"So far we have received 41,000 client orders for the S40/V40 and produced 30,000 of the new models. We are now over our planned rate of production for the model and are looking for total production this year of between 65,000 and 70,000," Johannesson added.
-- Henrik Alberius, Stockholm newsroom +46 8-700 1250Swedish truck maker Scania denied on Wednesday a German magazine report that it is negotiating with Germany's Volkswagen.
"We are not involved in any discussions with VW. Our only cooperation is that we market their products -- VW, Porsche, Seat and Skoda -- in Sweden," Scania spokesman Lars Christiansson told Reuters.
"Manager Magazin" reported on Tuesday that Scania and VW were negotiating on joint production of a middle-sized truck.
-- Henrik Alberius, Stockholm newsroom +46 8 700 1250Asian nations are eager to make use of the Internet in the field of banking and finance to meet individual country's needs, a senior official of computer group Hewlett-Packard Co said on Wednesday.
"The response through the region is quite phenomenal," Jeff Ayton, the region's director of marketing in the financial services division of Hewlett-Packard, told Reuters in an interview.
He said a Hewlett-Packard roadshow he held across the region revealed a keen interest in the use of Internet in banking and insurance. Internet experts say customers can use the network to transact business and banks can improve communications and customer service with its help.
"I don't think any Asian country wants to be left behind," he said, but added that the exact level of sophistication in the demand generated would depend on customer needs and infrastructure facilities in each nation.
With even rural areas now linked via satellites, there is a big potential for Internet-linked business in huge emerging markets, he said.
"Satellite technology is what will help in countries like China and India," he said, referring to their own satellite launch programmes.
Ayton said he had found interest in using the Internet in banking in the Philippines, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea.
Hewlett-Packard officials say that countries like India could leapfrog in computer networking technology because they have not yet invested huge amounts in computer infrastructure.
Ayton said he was scheduled to meet Indian banking officials next week to discuss Internet-related possibilities in the field.
Kapi Attawar, a senior Hewlett-Packard official dealing with emerging markets, said his company saw particular potential for the "Intranet". The latter enables local networks within companies to be linked to the worldwide information highway.
Many Indian companies already had local computing networks using basic data transmission facilities which may be used to hook on to Internet, Attawar said.Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently amount to 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of specialised railway carriages had hampered the ministry's attemtps to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said, adding that some 790,000 tonnes of lignite were already extracted and ready for shipment at mines across the country.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather settled in earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants, forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes during summer and up to 140,000 in the cold winter months.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to up output and gobble more coal than normal, he said.
"So far, Renel recieved approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data showed Romania extracted 23 million tonnes lignite and 3.47 million tonnes hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romania's coal production fell sharply after the December 1989 fall of communist rule. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines operated with bucket wheel excavators, conveyors, trucks and stackers. The remainder is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Investment by foreign oil firms in Ecuador will not be affected by the government decision to halt the operations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp, Energy and Mines Minister Alfredo Adoum said Wednesday.
"This is going to reassure all the other companies because they know that now they are all covered by the same rules. No one can have privileges," he said.
The government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador. 
Maxus, which has been operating fields near the Colombian border for the past nine years, is the only one of the foreign companies producing Ecuadoran oil which does not have a production-sharing agreement with the government. It has been engaged in tough negotiations over new contract terms.
Adoum said the government has pressed Maxus several times to sign a contract but the firm, which is a unit of Argentina's largest energy concern YPF SA, has put off taking a decision.
"Maxus has been reluctant, giving 1,000 excuses," he said. 
Ecuadoran law requires foreign firms to grant the state a share equivalent to at least 12.5 percent of its output.
Insisting that "we are not going to let them rob us", Adoum said the Ecuadoran government will fight any potential court action by Maxus.
"Up to now, we have paid Maxus $800 million in terms of all the infrastructure installed to extract the oil .... Up to now Maxus has extracted 50 million barrels of oil which with the sale price makes more or less $600 million," said Adoum.
"Up to now, the Ecuadoran people has not had a taste of one single liter of oil extracted by Maxus," he said. 
While local Maxus officials refused to comment, sources in the Ministry of Defense told Reuters that military personnel were already guarding Maxus's sites.
Mark Miller, executive vice-president of Maxus, said in New York that the company hopes to have something to say about its problems with the government in the next couple of days.
(Corrects to clarify that the company does not yet know when problems will be resolved).
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day. 
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
Ecuador, which left the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1992, produced 379,437 barrels of oil a day in 1995, up from 371,632 barrels a day the year before.
-- Quito Newsroom +5932 258-433William Resources Inc said Wednesday that it has acquired an interest in a high-grade deposit in Russia and Uzbekistan through its subsidiary, Rux Resources Inc.
The company said Rux has raised C$2.15 million (corrects from C$215) through a private placement to use as working capital.
Rux will acquire 50 percent of Nelkobazoloto, the Russian company which holds the right to mine the Shkolnoye high grade gold deposit in the Magadan region of Russia.
The Russian partner is contolled by Susumanzoloto, a gold producer in the Magadan region.
William Resources said the deposit contains an estimaed 340,000 ounces of minable gold reserves and could start to produce 66,000 ounces a year beginning in mid-1997.
The company said Rux has also entered into a letter of intent to buy 75 percent of Vetrenskoye Joint Co, a Russian company with the right to mine the Vetrenskoye high-grade gold deposit also in the Magadan region.
Rux will also become the owner of 49 pecent of an Uzbekistan joint venture company with precious metals deposits in Tashkent, William Resources said.
William Resources owns 70 percent of Rux.
	  -- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Inco Ltd said on Wednesday it has finally closed its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources Inc.
The closing gives Inco a leading role in the nickel market for years to come with the acquisition of the massive copper-cobalt-nickel deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.  
Diamond Fields shareholders had the choice to take common shares in Inco, cash up to a maximum of C$350 million, preferred shares in Inco or a new class of VBN shares to participate directly in the Voisey's Bay deposit.
Inco said Wednesday the full C$350 million was paid out. The company also distributed a total of 50.3 million common shares, 25.9 million Inco class VBN shares and 9.4 million preferred shares as part of the acquisition.
The deal ends a long takeover battle and legal saga. Inco's bid beat out rival Falconbridge Ltd last spring.  
But Inco refused to sign the dotted line when, days before the scheduled closing of the deal, a group of Texans launched a lawsuit against Diamond Fields executives and Inco.
The lawsuit was settled August 5, clearing the way for the deal to go through.
But for Inco, the deal was worth fighting for. The Voisey's Bay deposit is thought to be one of the largest metals discoveries in the world.
The site contains an estimated reserve of about 150 million tonnes of ore and will give Inco a solid chunk of the nickel market when production starts up in 1998 or 1999.
Inco may still face some roadblocks before it gets to that stage, however.
The nickel giant must negotiate with local native groups and win environmental approvals before it can go ahead with production.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Amway Corp has cancelled its private network distribution agreement with Tee-Comm Electronics Inc and its subsidiary AlphaStar Television Network Inc, the satellite communications company said Wednesday.
Tee-Comm and Alphastar said they were holding talks with Amway to set up a new contract.
An AlphaStar spokeswoman said the service was put in operation but Amway cancelled it because they were unhappy with it. The official would not give details on what Amway was displeased with.
"The issues and problems raised by Amway in the past have been rectified," AlphaStar president Murray Klippenstein said in a statement.
Tee-Comm and AlphaStar signed a contract a year ago to provide Amway with hardware and a broadcasting system so Amway could communicate with its more than one million salespeople, the spokeswoman explained.
Amway was involved in the testing of the program and problems that arose during the testing have been solved, she said.
She said she would not give details since the matter was now in the hands of lawyers.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Shares in Aur Resources Inc dropped Wednesday after it released results from its gold property in Nevada.
Shares were down C$0.90 to $8.95 on heavy trading of more than one million shares.
Since June, Aur said it has tested about two percent of its Coleman Canyon property located about 100 km north of Elko, Nevada.
"Investors think they've found dead ambers," said mining analyst Ray Goldie with Richardson Greenshields.  
"They haven't, though. They've found a lot of smoke," Goldie said, adding that exploration is still in its early stages.
The company said it was drilling to evaluate the potential for a large tonnage, open pit gold deposit.
Drilling intersected an average grade of 0.02 ounces of gold per tonne over 11.6 metres, the company said in a statement.
Aur said the results confirm the presence of widespread gold mineralization in the area, but the company needs to establish the continuity of ore-grade mineralization.  
The company said it plans to continue drilling and trenching in September.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Q2 ends July 27
				1996			    1995
 Shr	 profit	C$0.12     loss	C$0.26
 Net	 profit	   529     loss	 1,186
 Revs			31,314		   31,592
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	C$0.10     loss	C$0.35
 Net	 profit	   441     loss	 1,596
 Revs			60,565		   62,112
 Avg shrs		   4,561		    4,560
		(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Previous fiscal year ended July 29, 1995. Full name is Chateau Stores of Canada Ltd.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Zenon Environmental Inc said its Hungarian division won an C$11 million contract to provide a water treatment system and a five-year service contract in Poland.
Zenon's system will treat 150 cubic meters of water an hour, it said. Zenon is a water treatment and recycling firm.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Westcoast Energy Inc said Wednesday it will restructure its pipeline and field services divisions in an effort to lower costs and improve its natural gas delivery service to customers.
The gas pipeline and processing company said the move would result in about 300 job losses, roughly one quarter of the divisions' workforce, over the next year.
Westcoast said its gas producer customers face lower than expected sales prices which are forcing cost cuts at Westcoast.  
The company has applied to the National Energy Board for a deferral account in which to record costs of the restructuring. It did not specify the amount of the costs.  The affected operations are in British Columbia and Alberta.
"We want to be positioned to be able to compete vigorously for new business. We remain confident in the future development of untapped gas reserves in northeast British Columbia but we will have to manage any growth in the context of increasingly cyclical commodity pricing," said Westcoast president Michael Phelps.
A Westcoast spokeswoman said later that the company expects no "near-term financial impact" but there will be costs associated with the restructuring. The bulk of the layoffs will occur in September but it is not yet clear what the final amount of the related costs will be, she said.
-- Reuters Vancouver Bureau (604) 664-7314C-MAC Industries said on Wednesday it has sent a letter to shareholders of Circo Craft Co Inc advising it would not amend its C$9.50 per share takeover offer for the company.
C-MAC, a make of advanced electronic components said in the letter that as Circo Craft's recent earnings did not show an increase it believed the offer was adequate.
C-MAC also said the offer represents a premium of 38 percent over Circo's market value at the time of the offer.  
Circo, a maker of circuit boards, was trading under C$7 before the bid was announced by C-MAC on August 1. After the bid, the stock jumped on hopes of a bidding war or a sweetened offer by C-MAC.
Circo was off C$0.05 at C$10.10 while C-MAC was down C$0.35 at C$6.50 in early afternoon trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday.  
Circo Craft's board of directors recommended on August 19 that shareholders reject the bid and also disclosed that several other companies had entered into confidentiality agreements to review Circo's operations.
But C-MAC said its shareholders' letter that it was "surprised" at certain statements by Circo's board when itrejected the offer, including:
- CIBC Wood Gundy Securities Inc would recieve additional compensation if a superior offer was forthcoming.
- that the company would risk the long term value of Circo Craft by opening its books to other interested parties.
C-MAC said the offer will expire, as previously announced, on August 30.
Circo earlier reported that its earnings fell to C$0.16 per share, or to C$2,438,000 in the second quarter from C$0.15 per share, or C$2,400,000 in the year ago period.
-- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Canadian Bond Rating Service said on Wednesday that it removed Inco Ltd from its credit watch list, restoring previously assigned ratings.
CBRS also said it assigned a rating of P-3 to Inco's newly issued Series E Preferred Shares. The ratings are being reinstated at B++(High) and B++ for the outstanding senior unsecured debentures and term notes and convertible debentures of Inco, respectively, it said. CBRS's review had focused on Inco financing in its C$4.3 billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc and capital structure in respect of developing a nickel property at Voisey's Bay, Newfoundland.  
CBRS said the ratings outlook for Inco is stable. The agency said it recognizes the versatility of the financing methodology employed by Inco in the Diamond Fields acquisition, which was scheduled to close Wednesday.
The reinstatement of medium quality ratings for Inco reflects the maintenance of financial flexibility, the long life reserves position and expected continuation of favourable operating leverage for many years, CBRS said.  
The agency said there is no deterioration in the credit quality of outstanding securities at this stage and there will likely be no discernible impact on the credit quality in the intermediate term, as long as the costs of developing Voisey's Bay are held within budget and expectations on production costs and by-product credits are realized.
Proforma debt leverage is reduced to 20 percent from 34 percent at June 30, 1996 and will likely increase to 30-35 percent with the start of the project construction, but falls within the benchmarks deemed safe for the medium quality rating, CBRS said.
Inco's new Class E preferred shares are rated P-3 by CBRS, reflecting the expected stability of cash dividends payable at a rate of 5.5 percent a year for at least five years and other attractive equity-linked features, the agency said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Huntsman Corp, the nation's largest privately held chemicals company, expects to announce two acquisitions in the next 30 days, chief executive officer Jon Huntsman told Reuters in a telephone interview Wednesday.
One of the transactions, which are in the final stages of negotiations, calls for the purchase of a major polymers unit of a publicly held company, he said. The other acquisition will be a privately held packaging company.
Huntsman said both businesses to be acquired have annual sales of at least $100 million each.  
Huntsman, the patriarch of the family-owned business, declined to give other details of the anticipated acquisitions, citing confidentiality agreements.
His comments came one day after the company dropped its unsolicited $460 million bid for Rexene Corp, which had rejected the offer.
Huntsman also said he will fly to Europe on Saturday to negotiate several potential acquisitions there.
"We're in the middle of negotiations there for some very major European assets that could as much as double our European business," he said.  
The acquisitions are a key part of Huntsman's growth strategy, which calls for doubling 1995 revenues of $4.3 billion by the end of 2000. Much of that growth is expected to come from acquisitions.
The Salt Lake City-based firm dropped the bid for Rexene on Tuesday after the target rejected the offer in favor of its own internal growth plan. Huntsman had proposed buying Rexene for $15 per share and the assumption of $175 million in debt.
Huntsman said he was willing to pay $16 per share for Rexene, but Rexene adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated that offer also would be refused.  
"We have several other major acquisitions going right now and I just didn't feel it was worth the time and interest to try to negotiate with someone who had no interest in really working out a fair and equitable deal for shareholders," he said.
In rejecting the Huntsman offer, Rexene said its internal growth plan would serve the best interest of shareholders.
Huntsman also said he had considered launching a tender offer for Rexene, but "it's a very small industry, in the sense of the numbers of players, and it's not particularly an industry that we would want to be disruptive, or cause any type of turmoil, in."  
Some takeover traders had expected Huntsman would launch a tender offer for Rexene even though the company has never pursued a hostile takeover.
Although the failure to win Rexene marked the second time in recent months that Huntsman did not win its target, the company's top executive said its acquisition course will not change. In April, Huntsman's bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc was rejected in favor of a management buyout.
"These things don't mean a thing to us....they're not even a blip on the scope," he said.
Huntsman has long been known for its history of successful acquisitions, including the 1994 purchase of Texaco Inc's chemicals business.
The 59-year-old patriarch spoke from his hotel room in San Diego, where eight of his nine children had gathered for an annual retreat that combines the family business with family vacation.Sheldahl Inc said Wednesday it signed a memoradum of intent with Shinko Electric Co Ltd of Nagano, Japan.
The memorandum provides the framework for an extended partnership, details of which are being jointly developed, Sheldahl added.
Sheldahl said the agreement will outline increased cooperation between it and Shinko to produce Novaclad-based substrate materials.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Life USA Holding Inc said Wednesday it completed the acquisition of Tax Planning Seminars, a national life and annuity marketing organization based in Vorhees, N.J.
Tax Planning Seminars is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of LifeUSA Marketing Inc, which was formed by Life USA Holding to manage acquired marketing organizations.
Terms of the agreement between Tax Planning Seminars and Life USA were not disclosed. But Life USA said the purchase will consist of a combination of cash and stock, paid over a five year period.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.165		    $0.165
 Pay		    Oct 15
 Record		  Oct 1
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Express Scripts Inc said Wednesday it created a new subsidiary, Express Scripts Vision Corp.
The new subsidiary will be led by newly appointed president Larry Zarin, a consultant for Express Scripts over the last 18 months.
Express Scripts said the new vision care subsidiary comes on the heels of new alliances with Ciba Vision Ophthalmics and The Eye Health Network.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.01		    $0.02
 Net			    147			445
 Revs			 2,808		    3,296
		     NINE MONTHS
 Shr			  $0.01		    $0.02
 Net			    303			538
 Revs			 8,411		    7,517
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Hit by a government probe and with its share price near a three-year low, United American Healthcare Corp said its troubled Tennessee operations were profitable and could grow if state regulators would cooperate.
"Things are operating in an absolutely 100 percent normal manner (in Tennessee) and adding significantly to the bottom line," said chief executive Dr. Julius Combs in an interview with Reuters last week.  
"The only thing we're hoping to be able to project soon will be commercial enrollment. We think there's a significant market that is available in Tennessee," Combs said.
Detroit-based United American, which went public in 1991, has an unusual specialty in Medicaid markets. It manages four healthcare plans with 235,000 enrollees. Three years ago, Forbes magazine named it one of the best small U.S. companies.
It remains one of few African-American controlled companies on the New York Stock Exchange.
However, United American has problems going deeper than a broad slump in healthcare stocks, analysts said.  
State and federal authorities last year launched an investigation of marketing practices by United American affiliates in Tennessee that led to two fraud convictions.
A Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokesman declined to comment on whether that investigation was continuing.
Combs said he did not know the probe's status, either.
The company lost $0.13 per share in the third quarter ended March 31 on revenue of $27.7 million, compared with a $0.33 per share profit on revenue of $17.7 million in the year-earlier quarter.  
The company is comfortable with analysts' forecasts of fiscal 1996 results ranging from a $0.04 per share loss to a $0.07 per share profit, Combs said.
In fiscal 1995, United American posted a profit of $1.01 per share on revenue of $68.5 million.
The third-quarter 1996 loss reflected losses by affiliates, a decrease in Tennessee HMO enrollments and "the costs of defending the company in ongoing litigation," it said.  
United American continues to fight two lawsuits filed late last year by shareholders alleging false and misleading statements. Combs said legal costs have been "substantial."
United American's core business, with 45 percent of its revenue, is a Detroit-area HMO. Smaller businesses are located in Cleveland, New York City and Maryland.
About 23 percent of revenue comes from managing Omnicare-TN, a Tennessee preferred provider organization that holds the company's biggest promise and its biggest problems, analysts said.  
Combs said state regulators reviewed the company's books last month but put no timetable on the months-old HMO license review process.
United American president Ronald Dobbins said, "All of our discussions with them have indicated that there is no reason why the license will not be approved."
--Chicago newsroom, 312 408-87871996			1995
 Shr	 loss	   $0.26   profit	 $0.02
 Net	 loss	   1,073   profit	    70
 Revs			 8,216		    7,924
 Avg shrs			NA			 NA
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 loss	   $0.21   profit	 $0.08
 Net	 loss	     859   profit	   303
 Revs			17,102		   16,135
 Avg shrs			NA			 NA
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: 1996 results include $768,389 in direct expense associated with failed attempt to acquire Papa Gino's, a 180-unit regional pizza chain. In June, Noble Roman's said it called off the acquisition that had become subject to numerous delays and uncertainties.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Spartech Corp said Wednesday its current backlog stands at a record level of more than $34.0 million, up 12 percent from a year ago.
Based on the backlog, Spartech, which makes thermoplastic materials and polymeric compounds, said it remains cautiously optimistic about the fiscal fourth quarter.
Earlier, Spartech reported earnings for the third quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share, up from $0.16 a year ago. For the first nine months of the year, it earned $0.55 a share, up from $0.45 a year ago.  
"Spartech Plastics, our extruded sheet and rollstock unit, continues to produce excellent results," Bradley Buechler, president, said in a statement. "Third quarter 1996 sales generated by this 11-plant group rose approximately 16 percent as compared to 1995, with solid gains also being recorded in operating earnings."
He added that sales within the merchant compounding group declined modestly during the quarter. Spartech Vy-Cal plastics, a calendered PVC film operation, recorded a strong gain in operating earnings as a result of excellent volume and more stability in the price of raw materials, Buechler said.
The company said the acquisition of the Hamelin Group remains on track, with closing expected on or about September 30. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings almost immediately, David Mueller, chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Standard Management Corp said Wednesday it signed an agreement with Sands Brothers & Co Ltd of New York to provide financial services and advice.
Standard Management said Sands will provide advisory services related to merger and acquisition activity, financial management and financing strategies.
The company said it has grown to over $490 million in assets as of June 30 from $198 million in assets when it went public in February, 1993.
Standard Management has operations in the United States and Europe. Its stated growth strategy is through the sale and distribution of life insurance related products and through the acquisition of other companies and blocks of business.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Argosy Gaming Co said Wednesday that the Indiana Gaming Commisson extended for 180 days its certificate of suitability for Argosy's Lawrenceburg, Ind. joint venture project.
The certificate was extended effective August 20.
In July, Argosy said its Indiana license was challenged.  
Argosy said construction of temporary Lawrenceburg facilities is on schedule for completion this November. The company said it anticipates opening its facilities once the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers issues a permit for a permanent site and the Indiana Gaming Commission issues a final gaming license.
The Indiana Gaming Commission confirmed that it extended Argosy's certificate for Lawrenceburg.
The commission also said it rejected an application by Shilling Casino Corp, doing business as Empire Casino & Resort, that had sought to revoke Argosy's certificate.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Below are the current average ex-UK GBP air cargo market rates per kg for a 100 kg shipment, with a volume-to-weight ratio of six-to-one:
						  Aug 21    vs	Aug 7
		   UNITED STATES
LON-JFK					  O.62		 0.63
LON-LAX					  0.70		 0.71
LON-CHI					  0.69		 0.69
		   ASIA-PACIFIC
LON-HKG					  1.20		 1.19
LON-SIN					  1.23		 1.23
LON-NRT					  1.92		 1.91
LON-SEL					  1.80		 1.78
LON-SYD					  2.05		 2.05
		   MIDDLE EAST
LON-DXB					  O.70		 0.70
LON-BAH					  O.85		 0.86
			  AFRICA
LON-JNB					  1.71		 1.70
		   SCANDINAVIA
LON-STO					  0.7O		 0.70
LON-CPH					  0.65		 0.65
		   LATIN AMERICA
LON-SAO					  2.04		 2.02
*The rates quoted in this report were obtained by Reuters journalists on confidential basis from a range of airlines, large forwarders and smaller air cargo agents based at the three main London airports.
*All prices quoted in sterling.
*The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and are indicative or current market activity.British Gas shares climbed three percent on Wednesday after industry watchdog Ofgas softened its stance in a crucial review of the utility's pipeline operating unit TransCo.
But while investors welcomed the new proposals, British Gas said it had hoped for bigger concessions and added it would try to wring further compromises out of regulator Clair Spottiswoode before deciding whether to accept Ofgas' review.
The watchdog said it wanted TransCo, which is British Gas's biggest earner, to slice 20 percent off its charges in the year from April 1997. It had initially proposed a 20 to 28 percent price cut in May.
But Ofgas's main concession was in the price cuts for the four years to 2001, saying that charges should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed three months ago.
The final proposals would lead to a cut in the average British household gas bill of almost 30 pounds ($45) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
Shares in British Gas gained 6-1/2 pence to close at 204-1/2 on the milder proposals.
They had collapsed in May, losing 25 percent of their value in the two weeks after Spottiswoode relaesed her harsh initial proposals.
Though she has now made some concessions, the final review is still tough overall and will probably lead to a big dividend cut next year, analysts said.
British Gas stuck to its earlier prediction that lower charges by TransCo to gas suppliers will mean that up to half of the unit's 20,000 jobs will go.
The utility said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
But Spottiswoode said her proposals were final and added that only details were negotiable.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the Mergers and Monopolies Commission," she told Reuters.
The MMC Britain's senior competition authority.
Spottiswoode said her compromises followed new investment data supplied by British Gas in the last couple of months.
Another reason for a more relaxed regime was that Ofgas wanted to prevent accusations that it aimed to mend any false generosity in the past by being extra harsh now.
"We actually got a very good compromise for both shareholders and customers," Spottiswoode told a news conference.
But Ofgas has to refer the matter to the MMC if British Gas rejects the latest proposals.
Most investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
But some analysts said British Gas has little to lose if the TransCo review is vetted by the MMC.
"I advise them to reject. It is worth a try," said Daniel Martin, analyst at brokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.Lloyd's of London members agency LRG Cater Allen has updated its preliminary recommendations for each underwriting syndicate on which it has a participation for 1996.
LRG said in a statement that it will comment on all syndicates trading for 1997 when it issues its full Syndicate Commentaries Book later this month.
SyndRecommendation		 Synd Recommendation	  Synd
Recommend.
 2  Sell			     554  Hold			1007
Hold
 33 Buy				557  Hold			1027
Sell
 37 Buy				566  Hold			1028
Buy
 40 Umbrella Syndicate	   570  Hold			1036
Sell
 44 Sell			     575  Sell			1047
Hold
 45 Hold			     587  Buy			 1069
Hold
 47 Hold			     590  Hold			1084
Hold
 48 Sell			     603  Umbrella Syndicate    1121
Hold
 51 Hold			     609  Hold			1141
Buy
 52 Buy				623  Hold			1156
Buy
 55 Hold			     625  Hold			1173
Hold
 62 Hold			     657  Hold pending review   1176
Hold
 79 Hold			     672  Buy			 1183
Hold
102 Buy				702  Sell			1206
Sell
112 Hold			     724  Sell			1212
Sell
123 Umbrella Syndicate	   727  Hold pending review   1215
Buy
138 Hold			     732  Buy			 1221
Sell
183 Buy				734  Buy			 1234
Hold
204 Hold			     735  Hold			2001
Hold
205 Buy				741  Sell
218 Buy				779  Buy
219 Hold			     780  Hold
227 Sell			     800  Sell
260 Sell			     807  Hold
271 Hold			     824  Umbrella Syndicate
308 Hold			     839  Hold pending further review
314 Sell			     861  Sell
318 Hold			     866  Buy
322 Hold			     877  Hold
332 Sell - Merging with 1171   887  Umbrella Syndicate
340 Hold			     892  Sell
362 Umbrella Syndicate	   925  Buy
375 Hold			     947  Sell
376 Hold			     955  Umbrella Syndicate
382 Hold			     957  Sell
386 Buy				958  Buy
435 Hold			     959  Hold
439 Sell			     960  Hold
457 Hold			     962  Sell
483 Hold			     963  Buy
484 Hold			     979  Sell - Syndicate ceasing
488 Sell			     982  Hold pending further review
500 Buy				990  Buy
510 Umbrella Syndicate	   991  Hold
529 Sell			     994  Hold
544 Sell			     998  Hold
545 Syndicate Merging	    1003 Hold
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Lloyd's of London members agency LRG Cater Allen has updated its preliminary recommendations for each underwriting syndicate on which it has a participation for 1996.
LRG said in a statement that it will comment on all syndicates trading for 1997 when it issues its full Syndicate Commentaries Book later this month.
Synd Recommendation		Synd Recommendation	  Synd
Recommend.
 2  Sell			     554  Hold			1007
Hold
 33 Buy				557  Hold			1027
Sell
 37 Buy				566  Hold			1028
Buy
 40 Umbrella Syndicate	   570  Hold			1036
Sell
 44 Sell			     575  Sell			1047
Hold
 45 Hold			     587  Buy			 1069
Hold
 47 Hold			     590  Hold			1084
Hold
 48 Sell			     603  Umbrella Syndicate    1121
Hold
 51 Hold			     609  Hold			1141
Buy
 52 Buy				623  Hold			1156
Buy
 55 Hold			     625  Hold			1173
Hold
 62 Hold			     657  Hold pending review   1176
Hold
 79 Hold			     672  Buy			 1183
Hold
102 Buy				702  Sell			1206
Sell
112 Hold			     724  Sell			1212
Sell
123 Umbrella Syndicate	   727  Hold pending review   1215
Buy
138 Hold			     732  Buy			 1221
Sell
183 Buy				734  Buy			 1234
Hold
204 Hold			     735  Hold			2001
Hold
205 Buy				741  Sell
218 Buy				779  Buy
219 Hold			     780  Hold
227 Sell			     800  Sell
260 Sell			     807  Hold
271 Hold			     824  Umbrella Syndicate
308 Hold			     839  Hold pending further review
314 Sell			     861  Sell
318 Hold			     866  Buy
322 Hold			     877  Hold
332 Sell - Merging with 1171   887  Umbrella Syndicate
340 Hold			     892  Sell
362 Umbrella Syndicate	   925  Buy
375 Hold			     947  Sell
376 Hold			     955  Umbrella Syndicate
382 Hold			     957  Sell
386 Buy				958  Buy
435 Hold			     959  Hold
439 Sell			     960  Hold
457 Hold			     962  Sell
483 Hold			     963  Buy
484 Hold			     979  Sell - Syndicate ceasing
488 Sell			     982  Hold pending further review
500 Buy				990  Buy
510 Umbrella Syndicate	   991  Hold
529 Sell			     994  Hold
544 Sell			     998  Hold
545 Syndicate Merging	    1003 Hold
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769MacMillan Bloedel Ltd said on Wednesday that Richard Haskayne has been named chairman effective October 1.
Calgary, Alberta-born Haskayne has been on the MacMillan Bloedel board since 1994. He succeeds Ray Smith who announced his retirement last month. Haskayne is a past chairman and chief executive of Interhome Energy Inc, the parent of Interprovincial Pipe Line and Home Oil.
"I...want to state clearly that I have great confidence in CEO Bob Findlay and his management team," Haskayne said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Shares in Inco Ltd were up in heavy trading Wednesday morning on confirmation of a share buy-back and pending closure of its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources.
"Everything is going ahead," said mining analyst Doug Leishman at Yorkton Securities in Vancouver.
"They've got Voisey's Bay, and Inco's going to be a big company for a long, long time."
The stock rose C$0.75 to C$45.10 on the Toronto Stock Exchange in trading of 1.3 million shares. In New York, Inco's shares were up 5/8 to 32-7/8 in trading of 902,000 shares.  
"It's active because of the announcement that they're buying their stock back," said Joe Ismail at Maison Placements Canada Inc.
"People are taking opportunities because they know they can get a fixed price at this level here."
Inco said on Tuesday it would buy back 10 percent of its shares over the next year to offset earnings dilution stemming from its acquisition of Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in Voisey's Bay, Labrador.  
The takeover is expected to close formally at 1600 EDT/2000 GMT on Wednesday barring any unforeseen problems, an Inco spokesman said.
The closing prompted Canadian Bond Rating Service to remove Inco from its credit watch list. Moody's said Wednesday it affirmed Inco's Baa2 senior debt rating.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Class B shares of Bombardier Inc rose 20 cents to reach 19.35 in brisk trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning after it forecast 30 to 35 orders for its Regional Jet in its third quarter.
On Tuesday evening, a Bombardier spokesman told Reuters that Bombardier is confident it will get the firm orders.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," spokesman Michel Lord said in an interview.  
Analysts said Wednesday that the rally in Bombardier's Class B shares was related to Beaudoin's forecast, which was an unusual statement because Bombardier is traditionally loathe to make such specific forecasts.
"That was the most exciting piece of news that they gave us yesterday. This company doesn't say things like that unless it feels very comfortable in saying it," said analyst Jon Reider, of Richardson Greenshields.
"There is no question that any movement in the stock today I think is based on that," he said.
Bombardier's stock has rallied over the last 11 trading days, recovering ground lost earlier on concerns that it had not announced new orders for the Regional Jet.
"The one thing that had led to weakness or concern in the stock price was the fact that there was a weak order book developing for the Regional Jet," said Reider.
That would almost double the current order backlog of 40 for the 50-seat jet. Montreal-based Bombardier is producing the plane at a rate of five each month.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by Chief Executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended Oct. 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production output to Jan. 31, 1998.  Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Sierra Leone has joined a regional scheme using aerial monitoring to help protect West African national fisheries from poaching by foreign vessels, a fisheries official said on Wednesday.
Naib Iscandri, deputy director fisheries at the marine resources ministry, told Reuters that the first flight across Sierra Leone's territorial waters took place on Tuesday.
The scheme, organised by a sub-regional commission on fisheries and funded by Luxembourg, groups Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania and Senegal, and now Sierra Leone.
"Sierra Leone is not a member of the sub-regional commission on fisheries but it is a member of the regional project for aerial monitoring of fishing zones," Iscandri said.
Fishing plays an important role in the economic life of coastal communities in West African states bordering the Atlantic Ocean and a major role in several national economies. Russian and Spanish fishermen have been accused of poaching.
Cape Verde, Mauritania and Senegal have each provided the commission with one plane for the job of monitoring.
"The use of planes for surveillance of the country's territorial waters will greatly reduce poaching which has almost crippled the country's fishing industry," Iscandi said.Half yr ended June 30
		(million rand unless stated)
    Shr (cts)		    271.2    vs 175.9
    Div (cts)		    140.0    vs 116.0
    Net attrib surplus	 667.0    vs 422.5
Div payable October 9
On register September 6
Full name: Liberty Life Association of Africa Ltd
NOTE - The company said shareholders would be offered capitalisation shares in lieu of the cash dividend.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast the net surplus per share at a consensus 252.7 cents with the range 240.0-268.0. The dividend was forecast at 145.7 cents with the range 145.0-148.0. -- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Albania's national carrier Albanian Airlines will freeze its operations before the end of September because its hub airport will be undergoing renovation, a senior company official said on Wednesday.
"We are freezing the operations because the government will start the reconstruction of Tirana's Rinasi Airport runway," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters.
"Unfortunately there is only one runway at Rinasi and our company suffers most from the construction. We cannot work during the building process," he said.
The company's 150 employees would be on leave without pay during the "freeze", but the official guaranteed they would be able to return to their jobs when the airline resumed operations. He could not say when the work would be completed.
He repeated the company's denial of a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the airline was suspending flights because it was facing bankruptcy.
He said the airline planned to restart service after the renovation was completed, adding the company's board had convened this week to discuss "how to restart operations after the reconstruction".
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between the state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.Russia's AO Aviastar aircraft manufacturer has suspended production because its power supplies have been cut off as the company has not payed its electricity bills, a company source said on Wednesday.
"All staff (about 28,000 workers) have been sent on holiday until September," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters by telephone from the central Russian city of Ulyanovsk.
Interfax news agency said Aviastar's debts for electricity were 130 billion roubles, and management planned to cut staff numbers next month.
There was no official comment from the company.
The shut-down at Aviastar, which manufactures both cargo and passenger planes, follows agreement earlier this month to set up a Taiwan subsidiary, Aviastar Asia Corp, to market and service Tupolev Tu-204 jets in South-East Asia.
Aviastar commercial director Nikolai Kachalov said Aviastar had invested $250,000 in the new company out of its total capital of $10 million.
Japanese companies Tomen Corporation and Yamaichi Securities Company Ltd were also involved in the project as well as several Taiwan firms.
Kachalov said Aviastar currently had 680 options for Tu-204 passenger and cargo aircraft from companies in Britain, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Poland, Iran and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
--Viktor Anoshkin, Moscow newsroom, +7095 941 8520Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently stand at 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of rail wagons had hampered the ministry's attempts to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (the Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said. Some 790,000 tonnes of lignite had already mined and were ready for shipment.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather arrived earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes in summer and up to 140,000 in winter.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to raise output and consume more coal than normal, he added.
"So far, Renel received approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data show Romania has mined 23 million tonnes of lignite and 3.47 million tonnes of hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romanian coal production fell sharply after the end of communist rule in December 1989. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines and the rest is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Negotiations are reaching their final stage in the sale of up to 75 percent in Polish food retail and wholesale chain  Polski Handel Spozywczy SA (PHS), a Privatisation Ministry spokesman said.
"Negotiations are reaching their final stage," Jerzy Godula told Reuters.
Financial daily Parkiet reported on Wednesday that three bidders out of an original 30 remained in the negotiations -- wholesaler PLI, the Elektromis-Poznanska Szkola Handlu trade school and a consortium of food producers.
Parkiet said PHS, with about 650 wholesale and retail outlets across Poland and more than 6,000 employees, had 549.7 million zlotys in retail turnover last year and 203.3 million in wholesale turnover.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Cargo imports at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased in the January-to-May period by 18.5 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO IMPORTS (in tonnes)		1996     1995  PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE			    8,815.5  7,439.4	 +18.5
 --chartered flights			65.7    159.0	 -58.7
 --scheduled flights domestic	   93.5    101.7	  -8.1
 --scheduled flights international 7,042.5  6,218.6	 +13.2
 --trucks				  1,613.8    960.1	 +68.1
 MAY					 1,966.9  1,576.1	 +24.8
 --chartered flights			37.3    110.2	 -66.2
 --scheduled flights domestic	   20.6     18.7	 +10.2
 --scheduled flights international 1,544.1  1,238.3	 +24.7
 --trucks				    364.9    208.9	 +74.7
 APRIL				     1,826.1  1,507.2	 +21.2
 --chartered flights			 9.2	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	   17.9     20.1	 -10.9
 --scheduled flights international 1,452.6  1,285.6	 +13.0
 --trucks				    346.4    201.5	 +71.9
 MARCH				     1,864.6  1,673.6	 +11.4
 --chartered flights			 1.2	0.7	 +71.4
 --scheduled flights domestic	   23.2     20.8	 +11.5
 --scheduled flights international 1,513.8  1,426.4	  +6.1
 --trucks				    326.4    225.7	 +44.6
 FEBRUARY				  1,555.1  1,283.3	 +21.2
 --chartered flights			 0.4     24.2	 -98.3
 --scheduled flights domestic	   16.3     19.3	 -15.5
 --scheduled flights international 1,293.0  1,116.6	 +15.8
 --trucks				    245.4    123.2	 +99.2
 JANUARY				   1,602.8  1,399.2	 +14.6
 --chartered flights			17.6     23.9	 -26.4
 --scheduled flights domestic	   15.5     22.8	 -32.0
 --scheduled flights international 1,239.0  1,151.7	  +7.6
 --trucks				    330.7    200.8	 +64.7
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Cargo trade at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased 21.3 percent in May 1996 from May 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO TRADE (in tonnes)		 MAY 96   MAY 95 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL TRADE				3,015.5  2,486.3	+21.3
 --chartered flights			 43.5    110.2	-60.5
 --scheduled flights domestic	   282.4    258.0	 +9.5
 --scheduled flights international  2,198.4  1,829.4	+20.2
 --trucks				     491.2    288.7	+70.1
 TOTAL EXPORTS			    1,048.6    910.2	+15.2
 --chartered flights			  6.2	0.0	    -
 --scheduled flights domestic	   261.8    239.3	 +9.4
 --scheduled flights international    654.3    591.1	+10.7
 --trucks				     126.3     79.8	+58.3
 TOTAL IMPORTS			    1,966.9  1,576.1	+24.8
 --chartered flights			 37.3    110.2	-66.2
 --scheduled flights domestic	    20.6     18.7	+10.2
 --scheduled flights international  1,544.1  1,238.3	+24.7
 --trucks				     364.9    208.9	+74.7
 TRADE BALANCE			     -918.3   -665.9	    -
 --chartered flights			-31.1   -110.2	    -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  +241.2   +220.6	    -
 --scheduled flights international   -889.8   -647.2	    -
 --trucks				    -238.6   -129.1	    -
--------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In the trade balance, positive numbers indicate export surpluses; negative numbers indicate export deficits. Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Cargo exports at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased in the January-to-May period by 14.2 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO EXPORTS (in tonnes)		1996     1995  PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE			    5,125.5  4,489.0	 +14.2
 --chartered flights		     146.7     43.2	+239.6
 --scheduled flights domestic	1,276.7  1,118.0	 +14.2
 --scheduled flights international 3,091.9  2,885.5	  +7.2
 --trucks				    610.2    442.3	 +38.0
 MAY					 1,048.6    910.2	 +15.2
 --chartered flights			 6.2	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  261.8    239.3	  +9.4
 --scheduled flights international   654.3    591.1	 +10.7
 --trucks				    126.3     79.8	 +58.3
 APRIL				     1,081.4    871.9	 +24.0
 --chartered flights			23.3	0.1   +23,200.0
 --scheduled flights domestic	  263.0    205.1	 +28.2
 --scheduled flights international   653.0    571.4	 +14.3
 --trucks				    142.1     95.3	 +49.1
 MARCH				     1,124.3    969.8	 +15.9
 --chartered flights			56.1	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  262.1    232.6	 +12.7
 --scheduled flights international   672.5    635.1	  +5.9
 --trucks				    133.6    102.1	 +30.9
 FEBRUARY				    943.3    879.2	  +7.3
 --chartered flights			 1.0     43.1	 -97.7
 --scheduled flights domestic	  246.9    209.2	 +18.0
 --scheduled flights international   590.7    545.4	  +8.3
 --trucks				    104.7     81.5	 +28.5
 JANUARY				     927.9    857.9	  +8.2
 --chartered flights			60.1	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  242.9    231.8	  +4.8
 --scheduled flights international   521.4    542.5	  -3.9
 --trucks				    103.5     83.6	 +23.8
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo trade by 22.7 percent in May 1996 from May 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data was supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO TRADE (in tonnes)     MAY 1996    MAY 1995    PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL TRADE			1,385.7     1,129.5	   +22.7
 --chartered flights		  4.1	   0.8	  +412.5
 --scheduled flights	    1,297.0     1,064.9	   +21.8
 --trucks				84.6	  63.8	   +32.6
 TOTAL EXPORTS			488.8	 434.2	   +12.6
 --chartered flights		  0.0	   0.8	  -100.0
 --scheduled flights		405.2	 369.6	    +9.6
 --trucks				83.6	  63.8	   +31.0
 TOTAL IMPORTS			896.9	 695.3	   +29.0
 --chartered flights		  4.1	   0.0		 -
 --scheduled flights		891.8	 695.3	   +28.3
 --trucks				 1.0	   0.0		 -
 TRADE BALANCE		     -408.1	-261.1		 -
 --chartered flights		 -4.1	  +0.8		 -
 --scheduled flights	     -486.6	-325.7		 -
 --trucks			     +82.6	 +63.8		 -
--------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In the trade balance, positive numbers indicate export surpluses; negative numbers indicate export deficits.
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its aircraft fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo imports in the January-to-May period by 17.8 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO IMPORTS (in tonnes)    1996	  1995	 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE		  3,935.5     3,341.4		+17.8
 --chartered flights	    40.8	  65.6		-37.8
 --scheduled flights	 3,887.7     3,268.9		+18.9
 --trucks			    7.0	   6.9		 +1.4
 MAY				 896.9	 695.3		+29.0
 --chartered flights	     4.1	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   891.8	 695.3		+28.3
 --trucks			    1.0	   0.0		    -
 APRIL			     835.9	 718.7		+16.3
 --chartered flights	    23.8	  28.4		-16.2
 --scheduled flights	   809.8	 690.3		+17.3
 --trucks			    2.3	   0.0		    -
 MARCH			     853.9	 791.9		 +7.8
 --chartered flights	    12.7	  36.5		-65.2
 --scheduled flights	   837.5	 752.1		+11.4
 --trucks			    3.7	   3.3		+12.1
 FEBRUARY			  704.8	 540.5		+30.4
 --chartered flights	     0.0	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   704.8	 536.9		+31.3
 --trucks			    0.0	   3.6	     -100.0
 JANUARY			   644.0	 595.0		 +8.2
 --chartered flights	     0.2	   0.7		-71.4
 --scheduled flights	   643.8	 594.3		 +8.3
 --trucks			    0.0	   0.0		    -
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its airplane fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo exports in the January-to-May period by 8.3 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO EXPORTS (in tonnes)    1996	  1995	 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE		  2,266.3     2,092.1		 +8.3
 --chartered flights	     4.9	  12.4		-60.5
 --scheduled flights	 1,896.7     1,745.9		 +8.6
 --trucks			  364.7	 333.8		 +9.3
 MAY				 488.8	 434.2		+12.6
 --chartered flights	     0.0	   0.8	     -100.0
 --scheduled flights	   405.2	 369.6		 +9.6
 --trucks			   83.6	  63.8		+31.0
 APRIL			     497.0	 426.1		+16.6
 --chartered flights	     1.9	  11.6		-83.6
 --scheduled flights	   405.2	 342.4		+18.3
 --trucks			   89.9	  72.1		+24.7
 MARCH			     478.8	 472.5		 +1.3
 --chartered flights	     1.9	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   408.5	 395.8		 +3.2
 --trucks			   68.4	  76.7		-10.8
 FEBRUARY			  434.3	 371.6		+16.9
 --chartered flights	     0.9	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   361.7	 309.5		+16.9
 --trucks			   71.7	  62.1		+15.5
 JANUARY			   367.4	 387.7		 -5.2
 --chartered flights	     0.2	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   316.1	 328.6		 -3.8
 --trucks			   51.1	  59.1		-13.5
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its airplane fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Kazakhstan's goverment has decided to shut down state-owned Kazakhstan National Airways (KazAir) and establish a new national carrier, KazAir vice-president Ildus Nazmutdinov said on Wednesday.
KazAir emerged from the former Soviet airline Aeroflot and provided regular domestic and international flights. It also ran a network of 21 airports.
It was managed by privately owned Kazkommertsbank after it ran into financial problems earlier this year.
A new airline must be registered with all international aviation organisations, Nazmutdinov told Reuters, adding that non-profitable divisions would be excluded from the new airline's structure.
He declined to give KazAir's sales volumes or say how many aircraft it was operating. It would be take about six months to get full information about its financial situation, he said.
U.S. publication Airline Financial News said in July that KazAir was flying five Antonovs, an Ilyushin, four Tupolevs and a Yakovlev 42. Its one Boeing 747 was used for VIP purposes. Six 737s had been ordered but not delivered, it said.
Ruslan Zusangaliyev, KazAir's debt manager, said the goverment wanted to write off around $58 million owed by the airline.
--Almaty Newsroom, (3272) 509410Argentina's oil firm YPF SA said on Wednesday the operations of its Maxus Energy Corp subsidiary in Ecuador, which the Quito government has banned, account for only one percent of its sales.
"The income from this operation represents approximately one percent of the consolidated sales of YPF SA and its results are not significant," the company said in a statement.
Ecuador's government announced late on Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
But YPF president Nells Leon told Reuters that Maxus was still operating normally on Wednesday. He said negotiations to reach a new agreement were under way with Petroecuador.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655The approval of a feasibility study for a "dry canal" across Nicaragua to complement the Panama Canal has been delayed to August 27, a company official said on Wednesday.
"We came here to sign it on August 15, but the Nicaraguan government had some more paperwork to do, so their approval of the study has been delayed to August 27," Don Bosco, president of the Canal Interoceanico de Nicaragua S.A. (CINN), told Reuters. Despite the postponement, there is an understanding the government will approve the study, project coordinator John Sobke said.  
Sobke said the possibility of the dry canal becoming a reality was "as real as you can get."
"With the problems the canal options in other countries have had, we're the only game in town," Sobke said.
The proposed dry canal is a 236 mile (377 km) rail system to transport container cargo across the Central American isthmus.
The $1.4 billion project, the largest in Nicaraguan history, will include two new container ports and surrounding free-trade zones and will meet the demands of the expanding container shipping market, CINN general manager Juan Carlos Rivas said.
The feasibility study is expected to take one year and construction three to four years. Crossing Central America on the dry canal will take three hours and will be cheaper than crossing the Panama Canal, Rivas said.
The project is expected to create 20,000 direct jobs and 70,000 spin-off jobs in Nicaragua, one of the poorest countries in Latin America.Argentina will select a financial consultant to advise the government on the privatization of the country's 57 airports on August 26, a top official said on Wednesday.
Kleinwort Benson, Salomon Brothers, UBS and Coopers and Lybrand were chosen in the pre-qualifying bids for the consultancy contract, Miguel Velarde, adviser to the official in charge of the airports sale, told Reuters.
"The winner of the contract will advise on the form of the privatization," said Velarde.
One of the main issues the consultancy will advise on is whether or not the 57 airports will be sold in one batch or whether there will be more than one concessions, for instance splitting Buenos Aires' main international and main domestic airports in two.
President Carlos Menem has stated he wants the concessions for the airports to be sold by January. The investment necessary to bring the airports up to scratch would be about $1.65 billion. The concessions will last for 25 years.
-- Axel Bugge, Buenos Aires Newsroom, 54 1 318 0668The oil installations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp  in Ecuador are operating normally and have not been occupied by the army, Nells Leon, president of Maxus' owner, YPF SA, said Wednesday.
But Nells Leon told Reuters that talks to end a ban on Maxus' operations announced by the Ecuadoran government may "not be short".  
"Our area in Ecuador is producing normally and has not been taken by the army," Leon said, denying reports that the armed forces had occupied the company's block number 16.
With respect to declarations in the United States by Maxus' executive Vice-President Mark Miller that the company's difficulties with the government should be cleared up in two days, Leon said: "In the next two days we are going to set the framework under which the terms of the negotiation will be carried out."
He said it was difficult to say how long the negotiation would take: "I can't say .... I expect it will not be short."  
Nells Leon said: "We have a contract signed by the authorities under Ecuadoran law .... If the government proposes a change we will study it."
Asked whether he felt the government in Quito was changing the rules under which the company was operating in Ecuador, Nells Leon said: "I did not say that they are changing the rules."
He said "The government has asked for the contract to be renegotiated .... so that is what our regional manager in Quito is doing together with our partner from Petroecuador."
Ecuador's government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day.
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655After three failed attempts, receivers of Venezuela's bankrupt Aeropostal will take the airline company to the auction block for a fourth time on August 30.
"If none of the other creditors have any objections, the auction will be Friday next week," Servio Altuve, one of the airline's receivers, told a meeting of the board of creditors.  
A base price is yet to be set, but sources told Reuters it would be around $24 million, down from the last auction's $32 million base price.
Five groups of investors expressed interest in the airline during the creditors' meeting: England's World Aviation Group, the Venezuelan-U.S. consortium Alas; a consortium of former Aeropostal pilots and Delta Airlines executives; Venezuela's Zuliana de Aviacion; and the Venezuelan consortium Cavendes- Laser.
The airline's first auction attempt failed in July 1994 when the Venezuelan Investment Fund delcared void an an 80 percent public offering valued at $62 million.
The airline was decalred bankrupt and closed in September 1994.
-- Ana Isabel Martinez, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405The captain of the port of Coatzacoalcos confirmed Wednesday that the crude export port of Pajaritos, which comes under his juridiction, has been closed to all shipping.
"The port of Pajaritos was closed for leaving ships this morning," Juan Francisco Resendez Estrada told Reuters in a telephone interview. He explained it was obviously open for incoming vessels that needed to take shelter from Tropical Storm Dolly.
Pajaritos in the state of Veracruz is one of three crude export terminals closed because of the threatening weather system.
State-owned oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos said earlier Wednesday its three Gulf of Mexico ports -- Pajaritos alongside Dos Bocas and Cayo Arcas in Campeche state -- had closed because of the threat from Dolly.
Another port source at Coatzacoalcos, just four km (2.5 miles) from Pajaritos said the crude port had been closed since 0800 (1300 GMT) Wednesday. "The crude fleet is not moving," he said.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.The head of Hong Kong's only all-cargo airline AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd said he is applying for a licence to start flying to the South Korean capital, Seoul.
In an interview with Reuters, Stanley Hui, AHK's chief operating officer said he does not expect any problems in permission being granted.
He said he is initially considering a twice-weekly service combining with the carrier's current service to Osaka in Japan.
Seoul will also be a technical stop for AHK's new service to Chicago via Anchorage which starts on next Sunday, August 25
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd, which owns a 75 per cent stake in the cargo airline, has handed over the route to AHK as it is concentrating on stepping up its own cargo flights to New York.
AHK is taking delivery of three converted Boeing 747-200 Combi aircraft with 100 tons cargo capacity for the twice weekly service to Chicago. This will be increased to three times a week in mid-October,Hui added.
The airline also has a European service to Brussels and Manchester via Dubai.
Hui said the return flight from Chicago will refuel in Anchorage and Osaka in Japan. Seoul would be cheaper but it has a curfew while Osaka's Kansai airport is open 24 hours, he explained.
He added that Hong Kong's route granting body, the Air Transport Licensing Authority, will publish the Seoul licence application on Friday.
"We don't expect any problems and it should get through quite easily within a couple of weeks," he said. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017California-based, Polar Air Cargo said it will start a new service from Taipei and Singapore to San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Peter Hansen, Vice President Asia, told Reuters in an interview that the twice weekly service to the US west coast on Wednesday and Saturdays will start on September 11. The current service from Taipei and Singapore only has links to the U.S. east coast.
"One aircraft comes into Taipei from Karachi and Singapore with both Californian and east coast cargo on it. Another joins it in Taipei from Sydney in Australia. After swapping any cargo it then goes onto San Francisco and Los Angeles with links to Miami and South America, the other aircraft goes onto Chicago and the east coast," Hansen explained to Reuters.
The carrier said it is using traffic rights it has held for some time for the new service. As on all its services, the airline will use a Boeing 747 with 95 tonnes capacity. --Air Cargo Newsroom tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017Air cargo rates on European routes from Hong Kong are to be increased for the second time in as many months, AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd's chief operating officer, Stanley Hui told Reuters in an interview.
Eastbound routes from Europe will also see cargo rates raised "a little bit," he said.
AHK is the territory's all-cargo airline and 75 percent owned by Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.
Warning letters have already been sent to freight forwarders about a HK$2 per kilo rise from October 1, and the new rise follows informal talks with other cargo carriers operating out of Hong Kong, Hui said.
A HK$3 increase took effect on August I to try and boost revenue as airlines faced falling yields, rising competition and over-capacity, industry sources said.
"We are not trying to be greedy, just trying to get back to the original level at the start of the year. There has to be a rate increase or airlines will continue to lose money," Hui said.
He said there has been a 20 per cent drop in cargo selling rates over the past six months. At the end of last year the typical westbound cargo rate was HK$21 a kilo, recently this slumped to as low as HK$15, he added.
"With the rapid drop in cargo rates over the past six months it has been extremely difficult for any airline to make money. We have all suffered to various extent in the first half. I don't think any cargo airline has made money in the first of the year because of rapid decline in yields and if we can't make money with our cost structure, other passenger airlines must find it very difficult." Hui said.
He said another rate rise is unlikely to be popular but thinks there are the first signs of a recovery in the second half.
"There is a rebound in the second half starting with August. So far this month we have been doing very well in terms of tonnage. We have also managed to put in this two to three dollar rate increase and in general we have been very successful with it. Without the rate increase, airlines will continue to lose money," he added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)Yemen signed a memorandum of understanding with Britain's construction company Tarmac to upgrade the Aden refinery which was partly damaged during the 1994 civil war, an official said on Wednesday.
Tarmac "will now present a final financial and technical offer in the coming three months" to upgrade the 170,000 barrel per day (bpd) refinery in the southern Yemeni port city of Aden, the oil ministry official told Reuters.
The some 40-year-old refinery, the only one in Yemen, has a current output of 100,000 bpd.
The official said Tarmac and National Westminster Bank Plc executives came to Yemen last week to discuss the project and sign the memorandum.
Impoverished Yemen, a newcomer to the elite club of Arab oil exporters, has a daily output of 350,000 bpd.The reduction in pulp stocks and an expected increase in consumption should boost white eucalyptus pulp prices this year and in 1997, the president of Portuguese pulp group Portucel Industrial, Jorge Godinho, said.
"We expect the prices of pulp and paper to continue to rise until the end of 1996 and this should continue in 1997," Godinho told Reuters.
He said the sharp drop in pulp prices between the end of 1995 and the first half of 1996 would pave the way for a recovery in prices.
"The fall was so strong between the end of 1995 and the first half of this year that prices could not stay so low," Godinho said without giving specific forecasts.
Analysts quoted by Diario Economico paper said the price of white eucalyptus pulp could rise to 460 ecus per tonne at the end of 1996 from the present level of 420 ecus set on July 1.
-- Jose Barata, LIsbon newsroom +351-1-3538254Zimbabwean cargo airline Affretair said it will expand capacity substantially on its Europe flights this winter to cope with increasing horticultural exports.
Ingo Zimmer, managing director of the airline's Germany general sales agent ATC Aviation Services, said the three summer flights to Amsterdam will be increased to four from October and five from January.
"This is a massive upgrading in terms of space for the winter flower season," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The introduction of a new McDonnell Douglas DC-10 aircraft will ease capacity limitations with the airline's two Douglas DC-8s on northbound legs, in particular, he added.
From October, Affretair will fly a separate Thursday DC-8 Amsterdam-Lusaka service which will allow a DC-10 service to Harare and Johannesburg on the same day, Zimmer said.
The existing Monday Harare flight and Saturday service to Harare and Johannesburg using DC-8 aircraft will be maintained.
From January, when the flower season peaks, Affretair will fly DC-10 services to Harare on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays with extensions to Johannesburg on Thursdays and Saturdays.
Zimmer said distribution from Amsterdam through Germany is secured by direct trucking services to all major German airports.
Affretair horticulture sales manager Phil Clitchlow said in July the airline had not had enough capacity to cope with demand in the last few years.
The Zimbabwean Horticultural Promotion Council said in July it expects to export more than 48,000 tonnes of fresh-cut flowers and edible produce to Europe in the 1995/96 season. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish industrial investment group Incentive confirmed on Wednesday media reports that it was mulling the sale of its Hagglunds Vehicle unit, but added a decision was not imminent.
"It's not a new story, strategically the unit does not belong to our core business," Incentive spokesman Bengt Modeer told Reuters, adding that the company would now concentrate on developing businesses such as its wholly-owned drugs unit Gambro.
Modeer said Incentive was not in a hurry to dispose of the military vehicle operation but would wait for the right buyer and the right price.
"We want to sell to a good new owner, it doesn't matter whether it's Swedish or not, as long as our criteria are met," he said.
Incentive also plans to dispose of its 35 percent interest in U.S. brake component manufacturer Wabco acquired through the purchase of former investment group Cardo.
"It's a profitable and well-run company, but we came over the holding through the Cardo deal, which was just a way of getting at the Gambro holding," Modeer said.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006India's state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said it was proceeding with a proposed joint venture refinery on the west coast in partnership with Oman Oil Company.
"We have no advice from Oman Oil on reconsideration (of the project)," HPCL chairman H.L.Zutshi said when asked about reports in Indian media which said Oman Oil was reviewing its commitment to the joint venture.
"As far as we know, their interest in the refinery continues," Zutshi said. "They have already subscribed to a portion of their equity," he said.
M.N. Advani, managing director of Hindustan Oman Petroleum Company Ltd, HPCL's joint venture with Oman Oil, told Reuters that land acquisition for the refinery on the western coast was proceeding smoothly.
"We have full support of the Maharashtra government," he said. The proposed refinery is coming up at Deoghar on the Maharashtra coast.
The refinery will have a capacity to process six million tonnes of crude oil a year.
Zutshi said a preliminary feasibility report on another proposed joint venture refinery in partnership with Saudi Aramco Oil Company has been submitted to the Indian government for approval.
This refinery, also with a capacity to process six million tonnes of crude annually, is to come up in the northern state of Punjab.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000India's state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said it planned to build a liquified natural gas (LNG) facility in India in partnership with Total S.A. of France.
An HPCL official told Reuters a team of officials from both companies were looking for a suitable port-based location for the project.
She said the normal capacity for an LNG terminal was 2.5 million tonnes.
"We have signed an addendum to our earlier MOU (memorandum of understanding) with Total to include development of LNG projects," the official said.
HPCL and Total recently signed an MOU for floating joint ventures to build liquified petroleum gas (LPG) infrastructure and related facilities in India.
HPCL's new LPG import terminal at Mangalore with a capacity to handle 600,000 tonnes a year is scheduled to be commissioned next month, HPCL chairman H.L.Zutshi told reportes on Tuesday.
The company is also building LPG import facilities at the Vishakhapatnam outer harbour, Zutshi said.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000British gas industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday announced a softer stance in a crucial price review of British Gas, but a row between the two looked set to continue as the privatised utility it was disappointed by the level of concessions.
Ofgas wants British Gas pipeline operating company TransCo to cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average British domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
"We are confident that these final proposals offer TransCo a realistic target for the next price control period and an appropriate incentive to improve efficiency and earn reward. We hope British Gas will accept the proposals," said Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode.
But British Gas said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
When Ofgas made its initial proposals, which included price cuts of 20 to 28 percent in 1997/98 and five percent thereafter, British Gas said the regime could cost up to 10,000 jobs at TransCo.
Rogerson said the firm stood by that figure after Ofgas' latest plans, adding: "We see no reason to change our view on jobs."
The level of the potential job losses has raised concerns over safety at TransCo if the price review goes ahead at these levels.
However, Spottiswoode dismissed the idea and said that independent safety watchdog, the Health and Safety Executive, had found the assumptions underpinning her proposals would not hit safety.
If British Gas rejects the proposals, Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to Britain's competition authority, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
Spottiswoode also struck a tone that suggested Ofgas' position was firm, and an MMC referral likely.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC," she told Reuters.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Spottiswoode, has worried some investors. But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike.
"We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he added.
Shares in British Gas rose in initial response to the Ofgas statement but later eased back to show a gain of four pence at 202 after a high of 210. Dealers said much of Ofgas' concesssions had alredy been factored into the price. ($1=.6471 Pound)Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
The joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said.
These will then be incorporated into a final filing to the U.K. and U.S. governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.  
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, Harwood said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.
He summarised the five key issues under review as follows:
1 - What to do with the two carriers' existing freight products;
2 - How to reconcile and overcome the operating differences between the American and British product lines;
3 - How to share the revenue and profit attributable to the two companies' freight services;
4 - Customer service and booking procedures and how to create a seamless booking environment;
5 - Ways in which the partners can share their respective cargo automation and computing service.
The implementation team had undertaken a series of joint consultations before returning to their respective companies, to take decisions on the key issues, he said.
He added: "In essence, we have to decide between us which products will survive and which won't. British Airways tends to offer flight-specific freight products whereas American Airlines has a combination of flight-specific and time-definite products."
"Determining what to keep and what to eliminate are the decisions that have to be made," he said.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux is to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said on Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds on replacement trains over the next 10 years.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise... We are committed to spending 400 million pounds to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer".
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds.
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds.
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks. ($1=.6460 Pound)French utility and service group Generale des Eaux agreed a 15-year franchise contract with the British government on Wednesday, for its second regional passenger train operating company in the UK -- South Eastern.
The deal will involve the company's CGEA division spending 400 million stg on trains to replace old models over the next 10 years, with the first of them coming into service in 1999.
In a joint statement with Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF), the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million stg in the first year of the contract, falling to an average of 35.7 million stg over the 15 year term.  
In the final year, the operator has agreed it will pay the government a net contribution of 2.8 million stg.
This year, net of a pre-set profit element, the government is giving South Eastern a subsidy of 120.8 million stg. Colin Webster, chairman of CGEA operating unit Connex Rail Ltd, said in the statement, "We believe we can turn this operation into a model fanchise... we are committed to spending 400 million stg to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years with first new trains coming in in 1999".
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.  
Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman, said the new trains being planned would be air conditioned and offer lower density seating than the many ageing passenger trains currently used on South Eastern network across southern London and Kent. Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers, and rolling stock leasing companies, about orders for new trains but was also considering the option of forming a separate train owning company of its own from which South Eastern could then lease the units.
He said the company expected to have decided on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.  
Connex is committed to maintaing certain levels of service as well as seeking to meet higher standards of punctuality and reliability.
It will operate "at least the current number of train miles for the first three years of the franchise, with a number of service enhancements in the inner and outer suburban areas".
Connex also intends to spend 25 million stg on improvements to stations and services, including ticketing and car parks.
Webster said the franchise would be run "entirely separately" from the company's existing South Central franchise, although he saw some scope for cost savings.
Franchising director Roger Salmon welcomed the deal, calling it, "the largest rolling stock replacement programme so far by a franchisee."
Transport minister Sir George Young called the award a milestone in the franchsing programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, "over half the country's rail services (are) now awarded to the private sector".
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Industry regulator Ofags said on Wednesday it would make no further concessions in any more talks with British Gas on the price proposals announced earlier today for pipleine operator TransCo.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission)," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode told Reuters.  
"Obviously there are a lot of small things, so we will have further discussions, but I want them to agree or disagree with the basics," Spottiswoode said.
Ofgas said earlier it wanted TransCo to slice 20 percent off its charges to gas suppliers in the year from April 1997, which was at the bottom of the price cut initially proposed in May.
Ofgas main concession was in the price cuts for the following years, saying prices should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed earlier. "That is the result of going outside the asset base range and giving them some more money on operating expenditure," Spottiswoode said.  
Extra information provided by British Gas had prompted Ofgas to add 27 million stg a year on average to its projections of Ofgas' costs.
Ofgas also raised its regulatory asset figure to 11.7 billion stg from an initial range of nine to 11 billion stg.
"We wanted to make sure that we could...under any interpretation... not be accused of clawing back revenue that has already been allowed," Spottiswoode said.
British Gas has until October 7 to decide wether to accept or reject the final proposals. They will be referred to the MMC if rejected.
-- Hans de Jongh, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Utility British Gas Plc said on Wednesday that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject a proposed price review from industry regulator Ofgas.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters in an interview.
The review proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.  
The price curbs proposed are at the bottom of a previously announced range of possible cuts.
But Rogerson said he was disappointed at the review.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," he said.
At the time the review was first announced, British Gas said it could cost up to a possible 10,000 jobs at TransCo and Rogerson said the firm was standing by that figure in the light of Ofgas' latest plans.
"We see no reason to change our view on jobs," he said.  
Rogerson said the firm is still hoping Ofgas will adjust its review downwards in the talks that lie ahead.
"We shall continue talking to Ofgas as long as we think there is a useful point in doing so. We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals," he said.
If British Gas rejects the proposals Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC). Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.  
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Ofgas, and its director general Clare Spottiswoode, has worried some investors.
But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike. "We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823Qatar Airways expects to add another five destinations to its route network before the end of the year, bringing the total to 31, its chief executive said on Wednesday.
Speaking by telephone from Doha, Sheikh Hamad bin Ali bin Jabr al-Thani told Reuters the two-year-old airline would start once-weekly services to Sanaa in Yemen and Tehran in Iran in November.
"We also expect to announce Frankfurt and Moscow before the end of the year," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Morocco agreed to sell four mines, including a silver and copper mine, to the country's largest private conglomerate ONA Group for the equivalent of $75 million, Privatisation Minister Abderrahman Saaidi said.
"After we reached an agreement in principle...we decided to sell the four mines to the ONA Group at 648.8 million dirhams," Saaidi told Reuters on Wednesday.
Morocco launched an international tender in March to sell four mines -- silver, copper, fluorite, cobalt -- in one lot at a minimum price of 648.8 million dirhams.
It also offered to sell a foundry and a manganese mine in two separate tenders.
An official statement would be issued as soon as the "commission of transfer" put its stamp on the accord, Saaidi added.
The biggest mine is Societe Metallurgique d'Imiter (SMI), in which the state offered its majority 69 percent holding or 668,380 shares. It valued the stake at a minimum 448.9 million dirhams.
SMI, in southeast Morocco, has a capital of 96.7 million dirhams and produced 234 tonnes of silver in 1994 out of the country's total output of 259 tonnes.
Upline Securities stockbrokers said they had expected the ONA Group, which already has 31 percent of SMI and varying stakes in the other mines, to purchase the four mines.
"ONA's strategy in the mining sector culminated in 1992 when the company started operating the Guemassa mine, one of the world's lowest cost producing zinc mines. It merged all its mining participations in a holding company called Compagnie Miniere du Maroc, prior to the privatisation of the four mines," Anas Alami, an analyst at Upline Securities, said.
The other mines are copper producer Societe Miniere de Bou-Gaffer (SOMIFER), fluorite mining company Societe Anonyme d'Entreprise Miniere (SAMINE) and cobalt mine companie de Tifnout Tiranimine (CTT).
The state sold 40 percent of CTT, 35 percent of SAMINE and 34 percent of SOMIFER.
The latest available figures for 1994 showed that Morocco produced 36,010 tonnes of copper, of which SOMIFER accounted for 22,932 tonnes, and 85,000 tonnes of fluorite extracted entirely from the SAMINE mine. Manganese production was estimated at at 30,700 tonnes.
The mines were on a list of 114 state enterprises slated for privatisation by end 1998.
($1= 8.6 dirhams)
-- Ali Bouzerda, Rabat newsroom (212-7) 726518British Petroleum Co Plc subsidiary BP Oil Yemen Ltd and Yemen Petroleum Company have signed a deal giving BP the right to operate and manage Aden international airport's refuelling depot and facilities, BP said on Wednesday.
"This contract paves the way for investment by BP in new facilities at the airport which will qualify for benefits under the Yemeni investment laws of 1992. YPC will receive an annual royalty for the concession which is for a 20-year period," the BP statement sent to Reuters said.
It said the deal involves a "phased investment of up to $2 million."Subdued business during the long hot Arabian summer continues to take its toll on Dubai's air cargo market, with rates languishing at the year's lows.
Operators have resigned themselves to at least another month of lean margins, but:"In the next month and a half it should go back up," Air Express International's Emirates manager Paul Lattouf said.
"It probably won't improve until October, and even then there will still be the problem of severe overcapacity," another said.
"From Dubai it is now fairly quiet, as it usually is in July and August. A lot of decision makers are out of Dubai so whatever orders that have been placed, were placed a month or so ago," Lattouf added.
"The market is very dull and the competition between airlines intense. Some are selling at dead-cheap rates and they are not even collecting their aviation fuel charges," the Dubai cargo officer for a Far Eastern carrier said.
Trading activity in Dubai, the gateway to the Gulf and an important East-West trans-shipment point, traditionally eases during the summer holiday season.
But this year's slowdown has been exacerbated by shrinking sea-air business from the Indian subcontinent and the Far East.
The airport said sea-air freight volumes fell a year-on-year 8.6 percent in July to 5,012 tonnes -- the fourth successive year-on-year fall so far in 1996. It follows drops of 34.7 percent in April, 17.7 percent in May and 3.3 percent in June.
Sea-air freight has always been an important part of air cargo shipments out of Dubai. Goods are brought in bulk by sea and are then broken down into smaller packages and sent by air mainly to Europe and the United States.
But operators say this business has come under pressure in the past few months. Air freight rates in the Far East and Indian subcontinent have eased, prompting shippers to send their goods directly by air, rather than use sea-air, they say.
"The re-export side is down and lots of lower ad-hoc rates are being offered," said a forwarder.
"Some airlines are going empty because the rates are so low," another said of the many carriers which make a technical stop in Dubai en route between Europe and the Far East, and try to fill any available space with cargo from Dubai.
"To London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam we are going as low as three or up to a maximum of 3.50 dirhams a kg, but some are going down to 2.20-2.50," one airline cargo manager said.
Reuters' calculations put the average rate on a 100 kg shipment with a six-to-one volume-to-weight ratio to London Heathrow down three fils on a month earlier at 3.57 dirhams.
Before then, the average rate had been static at 3.60 since the Reuter June 7 ex-Dubai market report.
Mirroring the slip to London, the average rate to Frankfurt is also down at 3.57 dirhams from 3.60.
Volumes to the United States are still slim with rates on the route out of Dubai sticking around the levels seen in the past few months.
The average rate to JKF is at 5.80 dirhams a kg and the rate to Los Angeles is also unchanged at an average 6.60.
"Over 500 kg we are offering 5.30 to New York," a cargo officer at a large Gulf-based carrier said.
With business to the Far East continuing slow, the average rates to Singapore and Hong Kong are flat at last month's 3.90.
"We don't really change those rates because demand is always thin," said a forwarder.
Similarly, to Nairobi the average rate on a 100 kg shipment is keeping within its established 3.90-3.95 band, at 3.93 dirhams a kg on August 21.
-- Dubai newsroom +9714-626990Consolidated Statement of Operations
			    Three Months Ended     Six Months Ended
				   June 30		    June 30
 Unaudited ($000s)	   1996	1995	1996	1995
Revenue
Oil and gas sales,
   net of royalties	20,746    16,292    38,293    33,062
  Pipeline and facility     863	 615     1,889     1,752
Equity interest in
   pipeline operations	114	 260	 320	 510
				 21,723    17,167    40,502    35,324
Expenses
  Production		  7,329     5,830    14,050    11,295
General and
   administrative	   1,672     1,349     2,830     2,761
Interest and
   bank charges		 832	 367     1,873	 700
Depletion and
   depreciation	     8,008     5,928    15,118    11,906
				 17,841    13,474    33,871    26,662
 Net Income Before Tax    3,882     3,693     6,631     8,662
Income Taxes
  Current			 600	 409	 991	 777
  Deferred		    1,374     1,600     2,224     3,700
Net Income for
  the Period		  1,908     1,684     3,416     4,185
Cash Flow from
  Operations		 11,294     9,071    20,675    19,519
			     Financial and Operating Results
Per Share Data
  Net Income - basic	 0.08	0.09	0.15	0.21
		 - fully
		   diluted     0.08	0.08	0.15	0.20
  Cash flow  - basic	 0.49	0.45	0.93	0.97
		 - fully
		   diluted     0.44	0.39	0.83	0.84
Common Shares
  Outstanding (000's)    23,073    20,274    23,073    20,274
Weighted Average
   (000's)		   22,223    20,126    22,223    20,126
Capital Expenditures
  (Net)			16,406    12,417    48,731    24,776
Production
  Crude Oil (bbl/day)    12,774    10,008    11,925     9,932
  Natural Gas (mcf/d)    19,738    18,055    21,584    19,395
Prices
  Crude Oil ($/bbl)	 21.94     19.86     19.80     19.28
  Natural Gas ($/mcf)	1.28	1.12	1.35	1.30
Operating Expenses
Barrel of oil
   equivalent ($/boe)	5.36	5.23	5.36	5.07
					Condensed Balance Sheet
 As at	     As at
						Jun 30	     Dec 31
 Unaudited ($000s)			 1996		  1995
Assets
  Current Assets			  21,399	     22,106
  Investments				7,508		7,458
  Property Plant & Equipment	 214,396	    180,516
					     243,303	    210,080
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
 Current Liabilities		    21,177	     30,069
 Long Term Debt			   56,455	     46,521
 Deferred Charges			 23,519	     21,304
Shareholders' Equity
 Common Shares			   115,971	     89,421
 Retained Earnings			26,181	     22,765
					     142,152	    112,186
					     243,303	    210,080
CS Resources Limited is a Calgary-based petroleum company with operations focused in the western Canada sedimentary basin.  The Company's common shares are listed for trading on the Montreal Exchange and The Toronto Stock Exchange.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100The newspapers that belong to the Canadian Press news co-operative have agreed to stay within the agency, Canadian Press said on Wednesday.
CP also said president David Jolley has resigned effective immediately, after seven months on board.
Michael Sifton, chairman of Hollinger Inc unit Sterling Newspapers, will become chairman of CP. Jim Poling, the news agency's vice-president of editorial, will be general manager while CP restructures, the agency said.
Former Southam executive Jim Armitage will work as a consultant, CP said.  
CP said Sifton told employees at the agency's head office in Toronto Tuesday morning that the moves by the board "set the stage for a renewed Canadian Press."
The future of the venerable news agency was cast into doubt earlier this summer when Southam Inc, the largest of CP's 88 members, said it planned to pull out of the co-operative by the end of 1996.
CP's other members were forced to issue notices echoing Southam's because the structure of the organization means that members who remain are liable for all the common expenses when others withdraw.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Hydro-Quebec said on Wednesday that it agreed with Nordion International Inc, a unit of MDS Health Group Ltd, for the production of cobalt 60 at its Gentilly-2 nuclear power station.
The five-year agreement, which runs from 1997 to 2002, provides for the production of between 15 and 20 million curies of cobalt 60 and will generate millions of dollars a year in revenues for Hydro-Quebec, the Quebec government-owned utility said.
A previous five-year agreement with Nordion (1985-1989) for the production of 18 million curries of cobalt 60 had not been renewed because of an oversupply situation. Cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt 59 that results from the irradiation of cobalt 59 in a nuclear reactor. The production of cobalt 60 has no effect on the output or safety of the reactor, Hydro-Quebec said.
Cobalt 60 is used for treating cancer, sterilizing medical and surgical products, preserving food, combating food-borne illness and decontaminating waste. Nordion supplies more than 80 percent of the global demand for cobalt 60, Hydro-Quebec said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Coastal Resources Ltd said on Wednesday it reached an agreement with the board of directors of Canadian Jorex Ltd whereby the board will recommend Jorex shareholders accept an offer from Coastal to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Jorex for cash at a price of C$0.68 per share.
Coastal, a private, Calgary-based oil and gas company, said the offer will remain open until September 12 and is conditional upon at least two-thirds of the outstanding Jorex shares being tendered under the offer.
It said it will fund the acquisition of the Jorex shares through cash on hand and existing lines of credit.
The Coastal offer represents an eight-percent premium to the previously announced cash offer of C$0.63 a share by Cypress Energy Inc and a 26-percent premium to the closing price of C$0.54 on July 8, the date prior to Cypress announcing its offer.
Coastal said a major Jorex shareholder, representing about 53.1 percent of the fully diluted outstanding shares, has agreed to tender its shares under Coastal's offer, subject to the right of Cypress to match Coastal's offer.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.60		   C$0.73
 Net			 27,400		   32,500
 Revs		     932,000		  974,000
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$O.89		   C$1.09
 Net			 41,800		   49,800
 Revs		   1,900,000		2,000,000
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Desjardins-Laurentian Financial Corp. Year earlier quarter includes net profit from continuing operations of C$16.3 million or C$0.34 per share, while year earlier six months includes net profit from continuing operations of C$32 million or C$0.65 a share.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Shares in Newbridge Networks Corp soared on Wednesday after the company laid to rest lingering investor fears with a solid first quarter report.
The company's first quarter earnings of C$0.70 or US$0.51 a share beat consensus estimates by two U.S. cents. This proved last month's first quarter warnings from two U.S. analysts unjustified, analysts said.
"The numbers were not just good...but more importantly, you see sequential and year-over-year order growth in ATM (asynchronous transfer mode), in frame (relay) and in TDM (time division multiplexing)," said analyst Robert MacLellan.  
"It's a quarter that if you were a bear on Newbridge, you would have a very hard time finding anything to complain about. It all looked great," MacLellan added.
The stock spiked 8.45 to 75.00 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and 6-1/2 to 54-7/8 on Wall Street.
Analysts' warnings about the quarter from UBS Securities and Needham & Co in July sent the stock diving. It has been in recovery mode recently with other brokerages issuing reassuring reports ahead of the earnings release.
"The numbers were very solid," said one portfolio manager who declined to be identified.  
"No matter how you slice and dice them, there're no tricks, no smoke, no mirrors. They don't just look good, they are good," the portfolio manager said.
The stock has fallen from a year peak of 102 in May to below 57 in Toronto in late July after the first caution.
Newbridge said Tuesday it is on track for another strong year. The company, which manufactures networking equipment, also on Tuesday said it planned to renew its normal course issuer bid. Under the renewed bid, Newbridge will have the right to purchase four million, or about 4.7 percent, of its common shares during the next 12 months.  
JP Morgan said analyst William Rabin upgraded shares of Newbridge Networks Corp to buy from market performer and raised earnings estimates to US$2.22 per share from US$2 for fiscal 1997 ending April 30.
He also increased his 1998 forecast to US$2.76 from US$2.40 for 1998.
-- Sarah Edmonds, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100, E-mail sarah.edmonds@reuters.com1996			    1995
 Shr			 C$0.64		   C$0.53
 Net			 16,651		   13,332
 Revs			95,232		   64,325
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.69		   C$0.88
 Net			 18,831		   21,891
 Revs		     150,924		  137,473
 Avg shrs		  23,093		   21,439
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Golden Knight Resources Inc said its shareholders voted at an extraordinary general meeting yesterday 99 percent in favor of increasing the authorized capital of the company.
It said a special resolution was approved creating 80 million additional common shares without par value, resulting in a total authorized capital of 100 million common shares.
Golden Knight said the increased capitalization will enable the company to proceed with the recently announced acquisition of an additional 12.5 percent of Gold Fields Ghana Ltd and the financing required for the transaction.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100MDS Health Group Ltd said it signed agreements to acquire Nebraska-based Harris Laboratories Inc and Montreal-based Neo-Pharm Laboratories Inc, which will more than double MDS's revenue from pharmaceutical services to about C$100 million a year.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
MDS said the acquired companies will be integrated with the existing international contract research operations of MDS and managed through newly formed MDS Pharmaceuticals Service, with operations in Canada, Germany, China, Taiwan, the United States and Britain.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Scott Paper Ltd said on Wednesday that it reached an agreement in principle with Kimberly-Clark Corp regarding trademark and technology licensing and transition issues.
Once formalized, this deal will give Scott Paper Ltd access for 10 years to most of the brands and technology it has licensed from Kimberly-Clark Tissue Co, formerly known as Scott Paper Co (U.S.).
Scott Paper Ltd will also be granted the time and flexibility to transition those brands which will be returned to Kimberly-Clark earlier than in 10 years.
On April 18, Kimberly-Clark announced it planned to sell its 50.1 percent stake in Scott Paper Ltd.
Scott Paper Ltd and its advisers will therefore now seek a purchaser willing to make an offer for 100 percent of the company, Scott Paper Ltd said.
"I am delighted to announce we have an agreement-in-principle on the most significant business issue which arose out of the acquisition of Scott Paper Co by Kimberly-Clark Corp in December 1995," Lee Griffith, president & chief executive of Scott Paper, said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.17		     $0.17
 Pay		     Nov 1
 Record		 Oct 15
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.28		    $0.21
 Net			    916			684
 Revs			21,623		   15,454
 Avg shrs		   3,270		    3,185
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Full name is Engineered Support Systems Inc.  
		     NINE MONTHS
 Shr			  $0.65		    $0.51
 Net			  2,119		    1,689
 Revs			57,594		   48,453
 Avg shrs		   3,250		    3,325
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		$0.4125		   $0.4125
 Pay		   Sept 15
 Record		 Sept 3
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.305		    $0.305
 Pay		    Oct 11
 Record		Sept 27
Note: Full name of company is Manufactured Home Communities Inc.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Years ended June 30,
							 1996	   1995
 Interest income			   $   42,038    $	 --
Expenses:
    General and administration	  1,218,674     1,193,285
    Research and development		991,701	 503,375
    Minimum royality expense		125,000	 175,000
    Financing				   103,626	 198,632
	    Total expenses		  2,439,001     2,070,292
 Loss before income taxes	     (2,396,963)   (2,070,292)
 Net loss				   (2,396,963)   (2,070,292)
 Loss per common share			  (.07)	   (.31)
Weighted average common shares
    outstanding			    31,991,150     6,786,986
NOTE: Fiscal fourth quarter results were not available.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Celox Laboratories Inc said Wednesday it recently received a notice of allowance from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for a patent covering ViaStem, its bone marrow transplantation product.
The company said it expects to receive the patent within the next two months.
ViaStem was developed to improve the storage of stem cells from bone marrow or peripheral blood while a patient receives chemotherapy and/or radiation treatment for immunologic disorders or malignant disease.
It added that ViaStem could potentially be used in other clinical situations including preservation of umbilical cord blood and platelets.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.23		    $0.19
 Net			  8,010		    6,703
 Revs			78,966		   68,216
 Avg shrs		  35,171		   34,779
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Three months ended  Nine months ended
				     1996     1995	1996     1995
 Net sales		     $86,169 $74,362  $219,125 $195,545
 Cost of sales		  60,752  51,805   155,601  137,412
Selling, general and
   administrative expense   18,217  14,975    49,934   43,350
 Operating income		6,972   7,366    12,920   14,137
Income from continuing
   operations		    3,937   4,249     6,901    7,843
Income from discontinued operation,
    net of tax			--     187	  --	653
 Net income			3,937   4,436     6,901    8,496
Per share:
Income from continuing
     operations		   0.36    0.39	0.63     0.71
Income (loss) from
     discontinued operations  0.00    0.02	0.00     0.06
 Net income			 0.36    0.40	0.63     0.77
 Weighted shrs outstanding  10,994  11,006    10,990   11,048
NOTE: Sum of Q3 1995 continuing and discontinued operating income greater than net income due to rounding.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Energen Corp said on Wednesday that its oil and gas exploration and production subsidiary, Taurus Exploration Inc, retains sole ownership of the estimated 100 billion cubic feet of coalbed methane reserves recently purchased from Burlington Resources Inc.
Energen said that neither of Taurus's eligible coalbed methane partners elected to participate in the acquisition, as provided for under the terms of two area of mutual interest agreements.  
An Energen spokeswoman told Reuters that the two eligible partners were subsidiaries of TECO Energy Inc and Chevron Corp.Northwest Airlines will offer the maximum number of trans-pacific freighter rotations - 19 round trips per week - for the autumn cargo peak, airline spokesman Doug Killian said.
The 19 round trips are unchanged from last year's fall-winter schedule and the current summer schedule, he told Reuters in a telephone interviews added.
Normally, the airline would have at least one of its eight Boeing 747 freighters out of service during the summer for scheduled maintenance, but was able to keep all eight flying this year, he said.
"The market is looking good," he said.
The 1996-97 winter schedule includes a freighter service to Osaka's Kansai International Airport, inaugurated for the summer schedule, said Killian.
Northwest will serve Kansai twice weekly westbound from the U.S. and five times weekly eastbound to the U.S. as part of through flights to/from Tokyo, Hong Kong and Taipei.
Northwest's freighter gateways in the U.S. include New York, San Francisco, Minneapolis, Columbus (Ohio), Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles. All flights refuel in Anchorage.
In Asia, Northwest's freighters serve Osaka, Tokyo, Seoul, Taipei, Hong Kong, Bangkok and Singapore.
Killian also said the airline will have significantly more belly cargo space on passenger flights to Beijing, now that it has started a non-stop Detroit-Beijing service.
Northwest will operate six passenger flights weekly to Beijing, including three operating on a Los Angeles-Tokyo-Beijing routing, said Killian.
Beijing is a very solid cargo market in both directions, he said.
"There is a lot of high-yielding freight, a lot of manufactured goods and textiles moving from China to North America and a lot of high-tech equipment moving particularly from Florida and Texas to China on our flights to Beijing."
Killian said there is also a large livestock trade developing from the U.S. to China, but that moves on freighters, and Northwest will unable be able to put a freighter into China until at least 1998. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017H&R Block Inc, which offers tax and financial services, said its loss for the fiscal first quarter was due to anticipated increases in expenses associated with compensation, rent and utilities.
Incremental operating costs and amortization of goodwill from tax businesses acquired in fiscal 1996 also increased expenses for the quarter.
H&R Block reported a net loss from continuing operations of $0.27 a share. A year ago, it had a net loss from continuing operations of $0.20 a share, which included a one-time gain realized on the MECA Software Inc sale and the write-down of certain impaired assets.
H&R Block said its tax services business typically reports losses in the first three quarters. "While most of the revenues for the tax business are generated in the fourth quarter, certain expenses remain year round," Frank Salizzoni, interim president, said in a statement.
Revenues from H&R Block Tax Services' U.S. operations rose nearly 22 percent to $9.6 million in the quarter. Revenues from international tax operations increased more than 29 percent to $2.7 million. Revenues for Block Financial Corp increased nearly 31 percent to $8.2 million.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Freight forwarders still object to key elements of new U.S. air cargo security rules, the U.S. Airforwarders Association executive director James Foster said.
Foster told Reuters in a telephone interview that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had made some changes in recent days but did not satisfy the forwarders' principal objections.
The FAA said on Tuesday that it would implement the new rules on August 28, 12 days later than originally planned.
The rules, a response to the ValuJet and TWA tragedies, were set to take effect originally on August 16, but the FAA suspended their implementation amid a barrage of criticism from forwarders, consolidators and shippers.
The cargo community said the new rules created an additional paperwork burden, would slow the flow of cargo and would not appreciably improve security.
"They have made a few changes, but the paperwork objection still stands as well as the objection to the wording," said Foster.
The regulations specify that shippers must produce two pieces of photo identification when making a shipment and certify in writing that it does not contain explosives or destructive or dangerous materials.
The documentation must be kept on file by the forwarder or carrier until after the safe arrival of the shipment at its final destination.
Many shippers and forwarders have denounced this as excessively bureaucratic, says Foster.
"It doesn't really seem to serve a purpose," he said. "It is fairly objectionable to the shipper the way things are worded."
He said many forwarders believe the existing security measures are sufficient to protect the commercial air cargo stream.
"We feel this was an over-reaction to circumstances that really haven't been shown to have anything to do with commercial cargo."
Under existing U.S. security rules, freight forwarders can accept shipments only from known companies. Forwarders and shippers say it is unlikely that the additional requirement for photo ID will stop a terrorist, only leave a longer paper trail for investigators to follow after a tragedy.
Foster said there also is a concern that the new rules will slow processing of air freight.
"When you slow it down, you reduce the value in shipping by air," he added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Air Atlantic, a predominantly cargo carrier based on Spain's Canary Islands, is planning to expand its fleet and begin regular passenger services, its director Eduardo Gomez said on Wednesday.
The company operates three Fairchild Metros and intends to acquire a fourth, Gomez told Reuters.
It already has agreements with tour operators to run regular inter-island services, likely to start next month, and further ahead would like to increase its links with neighbouring Morocco.
Technically these are charter flights but they will be at regular times and tickets will undercut those of Iberia's regional subsidiary Binter by 10 or 15 percent, Gomez said.
The privately-owned company's business is now 75 percent regional cargo, typically imports of Moroccan shellfish or mail and medicines moving between the islands.
Its aircraft can carry 19 passengers or up to 2.3 tonnes of cargo each and are now performing around 16 flights a day between them. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Austria's blue-chip insurer Wiener Staedtische Allgemeine Versicherung AG said on Wednesday it had launched insurance services in neighbouring southern Germany as part of its European expansion programme.
The company said it would intitially focus on products which were cheaper than those already available in Germany or which did not yet exist in the form offered by Wiener Staedtische.
Among the services mentioned were private pensions, accident and home-owner's insurance.
"We certainly won't be moving into the mass market of automobile insurance," Wiener Staedtische director Hans Raumauf told Reuters.
Raumauf declined to comment on the projected insurance premium volume.
The company said sales would be managed by independent agents and agencies, adding it was not yet planning its own local sales for financial reasons. -- Vienna newsroom +43 1 531-12-257An average of analysts' forecasts predicts that Denmark's Den Danske Bank will report a 28 percent drop in profits when it publishes first half 1996 results on Thursday.
Seven analysts polled by Reuters predicted an ordinary pre-tax result of between 1.25 and 2.25 billion crowns, giving an average of 1.835 billion, compared to 2,537 billion in the first half of 1995.
Those at the lower end of the widely-divergent range of forecasts said they expected the bank's earnings from securities and foreign exchange dealings to fall by two-thirds.
They predicted earnings of 300 million crowns, compared to 906 million during the first half of 1995.
The most optimistic forecast still had forex and stock earnings down, to 775 million crowns. The average was 480 million.
--Ole Mikkelsen, Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650An investment fund bought just over 3.6 percent of Portuguese construction firm Somague-SGPS in pre-trade on the Lisbon bourse, a company spokesman said.
"A fund bought 400,000 shares in Somague. I won't say if it was a national or a foreign fund," Somague's vice president Diogo Vaz Guedes told Reuters.
Somague stood unchanged at 1,100 escudos in volume of 450,200 shares on Lisbon bourse at 0955 GMT.
"Institutional investors are very interested in Somague, and today's operation shows that the market recognised the results of our restructuring and once again considers that we are a big player in Portuguese construction," Vaz Guedes said.
-- Jose Barata, Lisbon newsroom +351-1-3538254French retailer Promodes expects its first-half net attributable profit to be higher despite lower operating profits, a company executive said on Wednesday.
Finance executive Alexandre Roeser told Reuters the company reaffirmed its forecast for an increase of between 10-15 percent in the full-year 1996 net attributable profit.
"The forecasts of higher consolidated profits for the 1996 year, as made at an analysts' meeting in May, are not in question," he said.
Promodes expects its operating profit for the first six months to be lower compared to a year ago, but financial results and exceptional gains will allow the group to offset that and post a higher net attributable result than the comparable 1995 period.
It posted 288 million francs net attributable profit in the first half 1995. It made 1996 first-half sales of 49.38 billion francs.  
Promodes is due to announce its first-half profit on September 10. It posted 1995 net attributable profit of 1.02 billion francs.
It expects a consumer recovery and customer promotions in the second half to boost net attributable profit for the year, although it could not estimate by how much.
Promodes shares cut their losses after the forecast and were down six francs at 1,210, or 0.49 percent, at 1047 GMT, after hitting a day-low of 1,171. The wider market was down 0.72 percent.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452 nm/pntLower than expected first half profits at Swiss banking group CS Holding underscore the urgency of huge restructuring plans announced by the conglomerate in July, analysts said.
Analysts said net profit for the first six months, which increased 20 percent after minority interests, was below most expectations. Costs grew more strongly than widely forecast.
But several analysts also said the quality of CS profits was increasing and added that the group had greater potential than rivals Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) or Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) because it was restructuring later.  
Market forecasts of net profit had ranged between 879 million and 1.104 billion Swiss francs, compared to the group's 830 million after minority interests.
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," said banking analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively high at CS Holding than at the others," he told Reuters.
CS Holding's total operating expenses rose 17 percent, which it said was mainly due to incentive bonuses paid to staff.  
John Leonard from Salomon Bros in London said he was puzzled that staff bonuses had risen so strongly.
CS Holding said incentive pay comprised 400 million Swiss francs of an overall increase in staff costs of 498 million, or 21 percent, to 2.86 billion Swiss francs.
"I know incentive payments increase generally as revenues grow. But it was a real source of suprise that the accruals for incentive compensation rose so strongly," he said.
"Total costs were a couple of hundred million (Swiss francs) more than I expected," Leonard added.  
Leonard said the cost ratio at CS Holding was 67.4 percent including depreciation, as against 69 percent a year earlier.
By comparison, SBC had a cost ratio with depreciation of 68.4 percent in the first half of this year and UBS posted 61.5.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research, who had forecast net profit growth higher at 28 percent, said it was positive that commission income now made up 38 percent of all earnings from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
Kalbermatten said potential costs savings and earnings growth had alrady been tapped at least in part by CS's rivals.
UBS has spent several years streamlining its activities and SBC, which last year integrated investment banking arm SBC Warburg, in May announced a reorganisation along four core business lines.
Kalbermattern said he would maintain his estimates for CS Holding 1996 full-year net profit of 1.6 billion or 8.50 Swiss francs earnings per share and for 1997 of 2.07 billion or 10.90 per share. He maintains CS and SBC as buy ratings.
Salomon's Leonard said he would likely lower his EPS estimates from 8.96 Swiss francs this year and 10.40 in 1997. CS Holding would remain a hold alongside SBC and UBS, with SBC favoured.
Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank also said he would lower his 1996 full-year forecast for CS Holding from net profit of 1.619 billion and an EPS of 8.40.
Bieri said he would likley downgrade CS Holding from buy to hold. UBS is a hold and SBC a buy in his ratings.
-- Marcus Kabel, Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340Comalco Ltd on Wednesday confirmed it was in early stage talks with Canada's Noranda Inc to build an aluminium smelter in Southern Chile.
"All we're really doing is having discussions in terms of feasibility of an aluminium smelter project in Chile," a Comalco spokeswoman told Reuters.Mobil Corp's Australian unit said on Wednesday its 108,000 barrels per day oil refinery in Melbourne was operating at 80 percent of normal output following the repair of its cracking unit.  
"The cracker is up and running," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
She said the refinery was expected to return to normal output by the middle of next week, pending the repair of one of three crude oil distillation units at the site.
The refinery's cracker, which was shut down eight days ago for repairs, extracts gas, gasoline, diesel and LPG products after the crude distillation process.
The Mobil spokeswoman said the refinery was still taking 100 percent Gippsland crude input instead of its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.  
Gippsland crude is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.
She declined to comment on the refinery's current crude oil intake.
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery ordinarily took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude, representing half of its total normal crude oil intake.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435The following table provides the latest results of Intech Asset Consulting Pty's domestic and international asset allocation survey of 36 fund managers, in asset-weighted terms, as at July 31.
Reuters carries the monthly asset allocation survey on the 21st of each month, or the first working weekday after the 21st. (Asset-weighted averages expressed in percentage terms)
			 Domestic Allocation
---------------------------------------------------------------
------Equities----- ---Bonds----  Cash  --Property-- Venture
    Total Indust. Res. Nominal/Index	Direct/Listed Capital
---------------------------------------------------------------
Jul  36.0  23.5  12.5   16.7  4.0    8.2    6.6   4.2     1.1
Jun  36.9  23.8  13.1   16.4  3.9    7.5    6.3   4.2     1.1
May  37.2  23.4  13.8   16.6  3.9    7.2    6.2   3.9     1.2
Apr  37.9  23.6  14.3   15.9  3.5    6.8    6.9   3.8     1.0
Mar  37.6  23.7  13.9   15.8  3.5    6.7    7.5   3.6     1.0
Feb  38.1  24.5  13.6   16.4  4.0    5.6    6.6   4.1     1.1
Jan  38.4  24.9  13.5   16.1  4.0    5.2    6.7   4.0     1.1
Dec  38.6  24.7  13.9   16.0  4.0    5.3    6.8   3.9     1.1
Nov  38.7  24.9  13.8   16.3  3.9    5.0    6.9   3.8     1.2
Oct  38.5  24.9  13.6   16.4  3.9    5.5    7.1   3.8     1.2
Sep  39.2  25.2  14.0   16.4  3.4    5.0    8.0   3.4     1.0
Aug  39.5  25.1  14.4   17.0  3.4    4.5    8.1   3.3     1.1
Jul  38.8  24.8  14.0   16.9  3.4    4.9    8.1   3.2     1.1
Jun  37.6  24.7  12.9   18.2  3.5    4.5    8.1   3.2     1.1
May  37.5  24.7  12.8   18.2  3.6    4.6    8.2   3.2     1.0
Apr  38.0  24.7  13.3   18.7  3.4    5.4    8.1   3.1     1.1
Mar  37.2  24.6  12.6   19.7  3.4    5.0    8.2   3.1     1.1
Feb  37.6  24.5  13.1   19.2  3.4    5.3    7.9   3.4     1.1
			    Year Averages
1995 38.2  24.7  13.5   17.7  3.5    5.2    7.8   3.4     1.1
1994 38.2  25.0  13.2   16.6  3.5    6.6    6.5   3.1     1.1
1993 37.7  25.6  12.1   18.1  2.8    3.8    5.9   2.6     1.3
1992 36.6  23.8  12.8   20.9  0.2    4.5    7.6   2.3     1.6
1991 34.9  22.8  12.1   19.0  0.0    6.9    9.9   2.3     1.8
1990 30.8  18.8  12.0   21.0  N/A   12.6  11.8    2.6     2.0
		    International Allocation
---------------------------------------------------------------
	   Equities	Bonds     Cash	Property
---------------------------------------------------------------
    Jul   17.9	   4.5	 0.4	   0.3
    Jun   18.3	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    May   18.6	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    Apr   18.9	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    Mar   19.6	   4.2	 0.3	   0.2
    Feb   19.3	   4.4	 0.1	   0.3
    Jan   19.6	   4.7	 0.1	   0.3
    Dec   19.3	   4.7	-0.1	   0.3
    Nov   19.2	   4.7	-0.1	   0.3
    Oct   18.6	   4.6	 N/A	   0.3
    Sep   19.2	   4.0	 0.1	   0.3
    Aug   18.7	   4.0	 0.1	   0.3
    Jul   19.1	   3.8	 0.2	   0.3
    Jun   18.9	   4.3	 0.4	   0.3
    May   18.6	   4.4	 0.3	   0.3
    Apr   17.9	   4.0	 0.3	   0.3
    Mar   18.0	   4.0	 N/A	   0.3
    Feb   17.1	   4.7	 N/A	   0.3
    Jan   16.9	   3.7	 0.1	   0.3
			 Year Averages
    1995  18.5	   4.2	 N/A	   0.3
    1994  18.7	   5.3	 0.1	   0.3
    1993  19.0	   8.2	 0.1	   0.4
    1992  18.8	   6.9	 0.3	   0.3
    1991  18.3	   6.1	 0.5	   0.3
    1990  14.7	   3.1	 1.1	   0.2
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373 1800Woodside Petroleum Ltd said on Wednesday repair work would cause crude oil production from its Cossack offshore operation to be reduced by more than half to about 50,000 barrels a day for three weeks in September.  
The curtailment in output would result from the shutdown of the operation's gas export system, a Woodside spokesman told Reuters.
The spokesman said the operation had been mostly producing crude oil at or above its rated capacity of 115,000 barrels a day in recent weeks.
"We're looking at a three-week shut down of the gas export system in September... during that period oil production would probably have to be cutback to around 50,000 barrels a day," the spokesman said. "There is no reason why between now and September we can't maintain full production," he said.  
"We are at the moment capable of maintaining full production," he added
In order to prolong the life of a new dehydration component of the vessel, the repair work is required to rectify faults causing an excess moisture problem, the spokesman said.
"When you shut down the gas export system it means that we have to flare any gas that comes up associated with the oil. Because of limitations on the amount of gas we can flare, we have to reduce oil production accordingly," the spokesman said.  
The joint venture partners in the operation are currently reviewing the repair work, which is likely to occur in the last three weeks of September, the spokesman said.
"We could carry on with constant interuptions to the system, but it's much better to bite the bullet and try and rectify the problem completely," he said.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside, Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.  
Woodside shares were 2.0 cents up at A$7.72 by 1.25 p.m. (0325 GMT).
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Indonesia's PT Inti Indorayon Utama said on Wednesday it was considering acquiring the chemical assets of PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper and selling Indorayon's power plants to boost efficiency after a recent weak performance.
"We are considering acquiring the chemical assets of Riau Andalan and selling the power plants of Indorayon in an effort to increase efficiency," corporate secretary P. Daritan told Reuters.
Inti Indorayon and Riau Andalan belong to New York-listed Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) which has its administrative office in Singapore.
Daritan said the firm expected the purchase of the chemical assets, used in the production of pulp and paper, to strengthen its chemical division.
He said the plans were expected to materialise next year, but declined to give further details, saying Indorayon was still calculating the figures.
The efficiency effort was neccessary following the firm's weak 1996 first-half results, he said.Indonesia's PT Inti Indorayon Utama said on Wednesday it was considering acquiring the chemical assets of PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper and selling its power plants to increase efficiency following recent weak performance.
"We are considering acquiring the chemical assets of Riau Andalan and selling the power plants of Indorayon in an effort to increase efficiency," corporate secretary P. Daritan told Reuters.
Both Inti Indorayon and Riau Andalan belong to New York-listed Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) which has its administrative office in Singapore.  
Daritan said the firm expected the purchase of the chemical assets, used in the production of pulp and paper, to strengthen its chemical division.
He said the plans were expected to materialise next year, but declined to give further details saying Indorayon was still calculating the figures.
The effeciency effort was neccessary following the firm's weak 1996 first six months results, he said.
Indorayon posted a net loss of 18.71 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against a net profit of 89.25 billion rupiah in the same period last year.
It has an annual capacity of 60,000 tonnes of rayon fibre.Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.Telecommunications giant Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT) is firming up plans to restructure rates to eliminate the cross-subsidy between international and domestic long distance rates, Edgardo del Fonso, PLDT's chief finance officer, said on Wednesday.
"We plan to restructure rates so each segment of the business is viable on its own, Del Fonso told Reuters.
PLDT intends to submit its proposal to the government's National Telecommunciations Commission before the end of the year, he said, adding that the implementation of the restructured rates could coincide with the planned metering of local calls in the first or second quarter of next year.  
"We think that this is the best scenario for the industry. New entrants are not very keen to lay out lines" because of the low rates for national long distance calls versus overseas calls, Del Fonso said.
PLDT's average revenue is 2.10 pesos (8 cents) per minute on national long distance calls but $1.70 per minute on calls to the U.S., which comprise 35 percent of its overseas revenues.
In the first half of 1996, international long distance calls accounted for 58.8 percent of PLDT's revenues, while national long distance calls made up 14.5 percent.
Because of this, the competition is keen on getting a slice of the market for international calls, Del Fonso said.
"We're vulnerable to international calls. It is the source of subsidy for our local exchange, which is being eroded by the competition and the reduction in accounting rates," the PLDT official said.
The accounting rates refer to the share in revenues of PLDT with other foreign telecommunications companies for overseas calls.
- Manila newsroom (632) 841-8937Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS), owned by three Southeast Asian firms, said on Tuesday it aimed to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subdiary of telecommunications giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to anywhere in some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system will also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through the firm's gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system as the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations which will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with a paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said ACeS is currently considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.This is Reuters' 14th ex-Amsterdam air cargo market report. It will be issued regularly until an updated version is published at a later date.
Below are the current average ex-Amsterdam Dutch guilder air cargo rates per kg for 100 kg shipment with a voulme-to-weight ratio of six-to-one.
				 August 9	   vs	  July 11
			    UNITED STATES
AMS-JFK			 1.05			    1.10
AMS-LAX			 1.85			    1.95
AMS-CHI			 1.25			    1.25
			    ASIA-PACIFIC
AMS-HKG			 2.45			    2.40
AMS-SIN			 2.20			    2.10
AMS-NRT			 4.10			    4.10
AMS-TPE			 2.50			    2.45
AMS-SEL			 3.60			    3.60
AMS-KUL			 2.50			    2.40
			    MIDDLE EAST
AMS-DXB			 1.55			    1.60
AMS-BAH			 2.10			    2.10
AMS-MCT			 2.50			    2.55
AMS-AUH			 1.85			    1.90
			    LATIN AMERICA
AMS-MEX			 3.65			    3.60
AMS-BOG			 3.50			    3.50
AMS-SCL (CHILE)	     5.45			    5.40
AMS-RIO			 5.00			    5.00
			    AFRICA
AMS-JNB			 3.70			    3.75
AMS-NBO			 2.35			    2.40
* The rates quoted in the report were obtained by Reuter journalists on a confidential basis from a range of airlines, forwarders and smaller air cargo agents.
* All tariffs are quoted airlines.
* The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and indicative of current market activity. Ex-Amsterdam Asian boom continues, perishables lift U.S.
By Helen Hill
Amsterdam, Aug 9 (Reuter) - In the Netherlands the traditional summer holiday slump does not seem to have had its usual impact on the air cargo market, with most carriers reporting an unusually busy August so far.
Asian carriers, based in the Netherlands, are having an especially hectic time.
A Malaysia Airlines cargo executive, Frans Meeuwes, said: "We have not had the usual slow-down period because of the summer holidays. All the carriers seem to be flying full, it is not just MAS." Yields also seem to be creeping up.
Other carriers backed this comment up, Pim de Goederen, Japan Airlines cargo director in Amsterdam, described the Dutch-Japanese market as "tremendous". Currently, he added, JAL is flying full of flower bulbs destined for the Japanese market.
Japan re-opened its doors to Dutch bulbs on August 1. More than 1,500 tonnes of Dutch bulbs are being shipped monthly by the Japanese carrier on its McDonnell Douglas MD-11 service.
Vegetables destined to Japan are another strong market, said de Goederen. Paprikas are especially in demand and this has increased this year, he added.
"Flowers are not in the volumes they once were because the Japanese can now import more cheaply from South America or South Africa," he said.
Imports from Japan are increasing slightly, though the strength of the yen deters Dutch buyers, he added. This leaves the carrier with a heavy traffic imbalance.
Although JAL would like more capacity outbound from the Netherlands, the traffic imbalance makes the possible introduction of more capacity unlikely, said de Goederen.
Korean Air's cargo manager, Mike Zimmerman, said: "Currently Korean Air is very busy, mainly with perishables destined for the Japanese market."
Koreans have not been quite as keen as the Japanese on Dutch flowers and bulbs but there is an increasing interest, he said.
Korean Air operates to 12 Japanese destinations on a daily basis from Seoul. Rates to Korea and Japan are remaining firm at 4.10 Dutch guilders and 3.60 respectively.
Forwarders too, are happy with business to Asia. Emery Worldwide's Benelux general manager, Koos van Velzen, said business to destinations such as Taiwan, Korea, Japan and Malaysia, was performing very well.
Jos van de Woensel, managing director of Zygene, general sales agent for Vietnam Airlines in the Netherlands, said Vietnam will take several years to develop but the Dutch-Vietnam market offers good potential.
Machine tools, construction equipment and semi-finished garments are amongst current exports to Vietnam. Goods are completed in Vietnam and then flown back to Europe.
Even the U.S. market, usually one dogged by over-capacity and low rates, is seeing a slight upturn. However, rates remain low and the surge in traffic is largely due to the Dutch perishables market.
Carriers seem to be able to get relatively healthy rates to the U.S. as long as they are carrying perishables.
One forwarder said the passenger business has led to more rates pressure on the U.S. west coast as well which means it is possible to get rates below 1.95 Dutch guilders. New York remains low and rates of one guilder are not unknown.
United Airline's European cargo sales manager, Peter Chase, said July and August are proving very busy as the American market clamours for Dutch vegetables and flowers.
John Smith, European cargo manager with American Airlines, traffic out of the Netherlands to the U.S. had increased on last year's volumes which is again due to the perishables market.
Last year a drought in the Dutch market meant Dutch produce growers had to pump huge volumes of water into their crops which pushed up the price. The U.S. could then buy vegetables such as tomatoes cheaper elsewhere, he said.
"We have been consistently full and have an average load factor of 84 per cent throughout Europe," said Smith. For this reason American will be increasing its tariffs from September 1.
However, if companies were not involved so heavily in the perishables market,the Dutch-U.S. picture is not quite so good. Several said rates are still under a lot of pressure and some are definitely on the decline.
Many U.S. computer manufacturers are expected to launch new models into Europe in the fourth quarter. Forwarders are hopeful that this will boost trade again.
Onno Wiersma of Air Cargo Trader gsa for Emirates Airline representative in the Netherlands, commented that capacity that available for Dutch cargo to the Middle East is full.Overflow cargo is being diverted to Emirates aircraft in London and Frankfurt, he said.
Emirates and KLM operate a three-times-a-week Boeing 747-200 freighter from Amsterdam to Dubai. Perishables, machinery spares, medical supplies and printed matter are the main exports ex-Amsterdam.
Van Velzen of Emery said the Middle East market was being affected by the summer season but the company has recently sent a European representative to the Middle East and is looking forward to more business from the region.
Latin America is not generating as much excitement as it did a few weeks ago. Cargo manager of Varig Brazilian Airlines, Dirk Hazenoot, said the market was "stable not crazy".
"We expected the market to drop off in line with the European holiday season but it continued and even seems to be increasing."
He could not pinpoint the exact reason for it but added that there had been some changes in the South American import rules and the car industry ex-Brazil was also doing well.
Rates are stable and were not showing any signs of declining at the moment, said Hazenoot. On average rates to Rio are five Dutch guilders and it is expected to stay at that level.
Air Cargo Trader director, Wiersma, who as well as representing Emirates is gsa for Aero Mexico, Aero Peru and Fast Air, in the Latin American market said the market is currently stable, as are the rates.
"Mexico has stabilised again after the problems with its economy. Machinery and automotive parts make up the bulk of the moves."
Wiersma added that he hopes to develop an interline agreement between Aero Mexico and Emirates to improve connections from the Middle East to Mexico.
Van de Woensel of Zygene, gsa for Air Gabon said South African rates are under pressure and he fears that this will get worse when Martinair launches its freighter into the market.
Air Gabon's business is very seasonal although there is some airfreight being moved for the oil industry, he said.
Martinair has just been given the green light by the Dutch and South African civil aviation authorities for a freighter service to Johannesburg. Market sources say it is likely to start in October or November using an MD-11 freighter.
In Amsterdam, some industry insiders are worried about the impact that Martinair and Virgin, both having announced plans to go to South Africa in the autumn, will have on the rates.
A LOT spokesman said intra-European airfreight continues despite predictions that airfreight cannot compete with roadfreight. He said safety and speed are key issues.
"Many of the multinationals prefer to have their cargo delivered to a modern, bonded warehouse at the airport rather than see it trucked into central Warsaw. Trucks can sometimes wait for 48 hours at the German/Polish border and it is often safer to send cargo by airfreight." --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish forest products group MoDo reports for the six months ending June 30, 1996 compared to the same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  1,661 vs  2,607
 Sales					10,222 vs 11,605
 Operating profit incl one-off items 1,892 vs  2,965  
 Operating costs			   7,741 vs  8,157
 Non-recurring items			  11 vs     69
 Profit from other companies		 2 vs     13
 Depreciation				  602 vs    565
 Net financial items			 231 vs    358
 Estimated full tax			  543 vs    668
 Net profit				  1,118 vs  1,939
 Earnings per shr (crowns)	     12.60 vs     21.80
 Currency hedging effect	  CREDIT 948 vs    n/a
NOTE -- MoDo Skog AB is a Swedish forestry products group.
A Reuters poll of 14 analysts found the market was expecting MoDo to post a first half profit after financial items of 1.44 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS
21/08 Nedlloyd	   Q2	  -10.8    -20- 0	 19.0
22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas.Integration may be the buzz word when it comes to buying an investment bank, but it is still too early to tell how successful the recent wave of purchases has really been, analysts said on Thursday.
While Swiss Bank Corp and Dutch financial services giant Internationale Nederlanden Groep (ING) have performed well since buying SG Warburg and Barings Bank respectively, the true value will only be known in the long run.
The crunch will come when the banks which have bought their way into the market meet a downturn, analysts say. It won't be until then they feel the pinch of any excessive spending.
ING on Thursday followed SBC's example in not breaking out the results of its investment banking arm, formed when it bought British merchant bank Barings in March 1995, after it collapsed from losses run up by rogue trader Nick Leeson.
It announced an increase rease in half-year net profit, but in choosing initially not to reveal the ING Barings results, raised questions among some analysts about its performance.
ING said it was not possible to separate out the Barings factor as it had been integrated into the new business unit. It later said ING Barings was currently earning an annual net profit of about 100 million guilders and was aiming for annual profits of 200 million.
"They have fulfilled all of the expectations we have set," Aad Jacobs, executive board chairman, told Reuters in Amsterdam.
Some said there were valid reasons for not breaking out the figures. "It would be an accounting nightmare," said one.
ING's net profit in the six months to June 30 was 1.51 billion guilders, up from 1.1 million a year earlier. Pre-tax banking profit jumped 39.2 percent to 1.02 billion guilders.
First-half profits were boosted by strong growth in income from its securities trading operations but it warned profits would not grow as fast in the second half.
Some suggested that ING Barings was a relatively small piece in the overall ING jigsaw, which encompasses huge insurance and retail banking concerns.
But there has been intense interest in the performance of the group since it rescued Barings when the blue-blooded bank collapsed in February 1995 after Singapore trader Nick Leeson had run up trading losses totalling $1.4 billion.
As with the formation of SBC Warburg, the problems of integrating the two have been the subject of much speculation.
The defection of a large number of Latin American equities staff to Deutsche Morgan Grenfell added fuel to rumours of internal dissatisfaction.
But the situation over Latin America had stabilised, with some recent new hirings, and an expected loss of staff in South East Asia had not occurred, analysts said.
Matthew Czepliewicz, European banking analyst at Salomon Brothers in London, said a major cost for banks which had bought an investment banking arm was that of retaining the staff.
He said it was difficult to say how much of ING's rise in profits was due to healthy market conditions and how much to Barings, but warned favourable markets would not last forever.
"It would be foolish to extrapolate the gains we have seen over the next six to 18 months...people are riding a wave of euphoria at the moment, but that won't last forever," he said.
And on the whole, acquisitions such as that of Barings by ING, Kleinwort Benson by Dresdner Bank and Morgan Grenfell by Deutsche Bank had made sense, Czepliewicz added.Kenya's main sugar millers have started major revamping programmes to meet high demand at a time when imports are expected to slow, commodity analysts and sugar executives said on Thursday.
Senior commodity analysts said constant breakdowns and lower recovery rates at the factories made it impossible to meet crushing targets or to attain their full crushing capacities.
But the major constraint remained funding and management problems, they said.
Kenya's six mills, all located in western Kenya, have a production capacity of 530,000 tonnes. The seventh miller, West Kenya, is privately-owned and produces only 500 tonnes a year.
Total Kenyan sugar production is forecast at 420,000 tonnes this year against consumption of 560,000 tonnes.
Government figures show that sugar imports reached 244,400 tonnes in 1995 but commodity experts say taxes will cut that to around 80,000 tonnes this year.
Mumias Sugar Company, which accounts for 55 percent of the national output, is replacing its mills with diffusers at a cost of 4.5 billion shillings ($78.95 million) to raise cane crushing capacity to 8,000 tonne per day from the current 7,000 tonnes.
"Diffusers are modern and cut costs on repairs. They will be operational at end-December,"  said David Carter, general manager of the Mumias Sugar Company.
Augustine Sakwa, of the farmers' body Mumias Out-Growers Company, said maintenance had cut crushing capacity at the Mumias mill to 4,000 tonnes per day from 7,000 tonnes per day.
Sakwa added that nearly two million tonnes of cane was rotting in the Mumias fields because of transportation problems.
Financing for the diffusers was sought from internal sources and foreign investors, Carter told Reuters.
Sugar officials said South Nyanza Sugar Company was still negotiating for loans to expand its crushing capacity to meet an oversupply of cane in that area.
"To adequately address the supply situation, the factory plans to raise its crushing capacity to 3,000 tonnes of cane per day, up from the installed capacity of 2,500 tonnes per day," said an official at the state-run Kenya Sugar Authority.
Muhoroni Sugar Company's immediate programme was to install a turbine generator powered by steam from the boilers to generate an adequate supply of electricity.
Crushing there has been undermined by frequent power shortages. The  Kenya Power & Lighting Company, a marketing monopoly, refuses to give guarantees on supply.
Miwani Sugar Company, which continues to perform poorly three years after privatisation, was closed between May and July for a major rehabilitation. It is the only Kenyan factory with the ability to process white mill sugar for industrial use.
Although it has a capacity to produce 40 tonnes of refined white sugar per day, many industry observers believe that the factory is not capable of producing even half of that capacity.
The government still holds a 49 percent stake in Miwani.
The cash-strapped  Nzoia Sugar Company has requested credit from the Kenya Sugar Authority to pay growers who have refused to supply cane owing to outstanding payment problems.
There were no indication of plans at Chemelil Sugar.
-- Nairobi Newsroom ++254-2 330-261Poland's KGHM Polska Miedz copper combine plans to set up a subsidiary to turn its long-defunct copper mine Konrad into a mineral water bottling and water supply company, a KGHM official said on Thursday.
Boguslaw Kantor, director in charge of the water project, said that KGHM, based in the southwestern city of Lubin, expected to register the new company as Aqua Konrad SA in October.
"As a part of the restructuring of the Konrad mine, a new company will be set up with a share capital of 120 million zlotys and...we expect to register Aqua Konrad SA in October," Kantor told Reuters.
He said the new venture would be controlled by KGHM with small minority stakes held by the local communities of Polkowice and Lubin, which later would contribute their existing water supply systems to the company.
Kantor said the mineral water bottling plant, with annual production capacity of about six million bottles should be completed next year, while the water supply system should become operational in 2003.
He said the company was expected to reach annual sales of about 265 million zlotys with 80 percent of revenue generated by the bottling plant, which would support the less-profitable water supply project.
"The total investment is estimated at about 250 million zlotys," he said.
Kantor said the project, which was expected to start bringing profits within seven years, would allow KGHM to minimise the costs of phasing out the Konrad mine's operations, which now had to be maintained for safety reasons.
The venture would also create about 200 jobs for 600 workers now employed at the mine, he said.
Kantor said the full shut-down of the mine would take seven years and would cost KGHM 140 million zlotys.
KGHM, one of the world's largest copper producers, which had sales of 3.6 billion zlotys in 1995, is slated for a partial sell-off in the first quarter of 1997.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Gruma SA, the world's largest producer of corn flour, plans to use almost all the $258 million it will receive in a new strategic partnership with Archer Daniels Midland Co. to pay down short term debt, the chief executive officer Eduardo Livas said Thursday.
Livas, speaking in a telephone interview with Reuters after Gruma linked with one of the world's largest agribusiness companies, said a substantial amount of the cash injection would be used to pay down the company's outstanding bank debts of $580 million.
"It will be $250 million or something like that....reducing our debt to around $320 million," Livas said.  
Livas said Gruma's average debt rates were around 10.5 percent, although he said the company would obviously looking to pay down more expensive short-term revolving debts, where the company had some rates in the 11 to 13 percent range.
Key elements to the strategic partnership, that the companies announced in a joint statement released earlier Thursday, are that ADM receives a 22 percent a stake in Gruma, Gruma receives a $258 million payment from ADM and that the companies will establish joint ventures in U.S. corn flour operations and Mexican wheat flour operations.  
Livas said the company realised it needed to increase equity to isolate Gruma from foreign exchange fluctuations and because interest expenses were proving substantial.
In 1995 interest expenses account for around 80 percent of the company's operating profit. "Most of our profits were going to finance expenses," he said, adding that the situation had improved in 1996 but that the ratio was still running at around 45 percent.
After discussions with advisors, who said Gruma could possibly raise between $100 and $120 million on markets via a share issue, Livas said the company opted for the alliance with ADM, especially considering difficult market conditions with issues being postponed and delayed.
Livas said the companies seek to quickly beef up the Mexican wheat milling side of the venture. ADM's two Mexican mills, one in Mexico City and one in Torreon, are running at around 20 to 30 percent of their total capacity of around 250,000 tonnes per year.
"We are going to focus first on utilizing the capacity and then expanding operations," Livas said. He added the companies sought to reach a market share of around 25 to 30 percent and milling around one million tonnes "within five to seven years."Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said on Thursday it could fulfil domestic demand for its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine in December when a new plant sterol processing unit is opened.
"We expect we will be able to fullfil the domestic demand in December," Raision Tehtaat information manager Jarkko Heino told Reuters by telephone.
Heino was asked to comment on local media reports that Raisio could increase output of its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine five-fold after the new unit to process its key ingredient, plant sterol, comes on stream.
"There is some misunderstanding. It is not true," Heino said. "But production will certainly increase." He declined to specify any amount.
Heino also declined to estimate when Raisio's production capacity would allow exports of Benecol.
"It will not happen this year, and nothing can be said about next year," Heino said.
Not processing capacity, but the lack of plant sterol has been the crucial bottle neck for Benecol production, he said.
"We expect we can solve it," he said.
He repeated Raisio's forecast that net sales of Benecol would be some 60 million markka this year, but declined to give any estimate for 1997.
-- Ilkka Virtanen, Helsinki newsroom +358-0-6805 0248Den Danske Bank on Thursday said that core earnings rose 43 percent in the first half of 1996 but the pace of growth was unlikely to last.
"In the second half of 1996, core earnings, including earnings from insurance operations, are not likely to reach the level recorded in the first six months, but core earnings for the year are expected to improve somewhat on 1995," it said.
Releasing half-year results slightly down on the same period last year, the bank, Denmark's biggest, said that earnings from currency and securities dealing fell by 35 percent.
"Group results for 1996 will be particularly influenced by year-end bond and share prices," it said, making no forecast.
It logged a 1996 first half pre-tax ordinary result of 2.381 billion crowns ($415.2 million), down from 2.537 billion during the same period last year but above the most optimistic of forecasts by a panel of analysts whose estimates ranged from 1.250 to 2.250 billion.
Core earnings were up to 1.793 billion crowns in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1.257 billion during the first half of 1995. Full-year 1995 core earnings were 2.785 billion crowns.
But profit from stocks and foreign exchange slid to 585 million crowns from 906 million in the same period last year.
Provisions were almost halved, to 341 million crowns from 661 million, but the bank quoted its chief executive as saying that they would be likely to rise again in the future.
"Knud Soerensen said that provisions could probably not be maintained at this low level through a normal economic cycle," the report said.
It added that although provisioning in the second half was already likely to show an increase over the first six months, the figure for the full year was expected to be lower than 1995's 1.254 billion.
The bank said it returned 15.6 percent on equity.
The Copenhagen stock market welcomed the report, sending the bank's share up 8.5 crowns to 404.5 after the announcement, although it later settled back to 402.00 crowns.
Soerensen later told Reuters that he aimed to increase group profitability further by a fresh round of cost-cutting, after triiming outgoings by 91 million crowns to 3.067 billion during the 1996 first half.
"We are a little careful about anticipating a continued fall in our costs but we will work with that aim," he said.
Staff cuts of almost 700 to a present force of 11,000 have helped bring about cost reductions.
Den Danske Bank's closest rival, Unidanmark, on Tuesday filed first half profits up 18 percent to 1.275 billion crowns, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. -- Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.735 Danish Crown)Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said on Thursday it could fulfil domestic demand for its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine in December when a new plant sterol processing unit is opened.
"We expect we will be able to fullfil the domestic demand in December," Raision Tehtaat information manager Jarkko Heino told Reuters by telephone.
Heino was asked to comment on local media reports that Raisio could increase output of its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine five-fold after the new unit to process its key ingredient, plant sterol, comes on stream.
"There is some misunderstanding. It is not true," Heino said. "But production will certainly increase." He declined to specify any amount.
Heino also declined to estimate when Raisio's production capacity would allow exports of Benecol.
"It will not happen this year, and nothing can be said about next year," Heino said.
Not processing capacity, but the lack of plant sterol has been the bottleneck for Benecol production, he said.
"We expect we can solve it," he said.
He repeated Raisio's forecast that net sales of Benecol would be some 60 million markka this year, but declined to give any estimate for 1997.
-- Ilkka Virtanen, Helsinki newsroom +358-0-6805 0248Britain's Rentokil Group Plc on Thursday notched up a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil made a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds in the six months to June 30, just at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change follows the pest control-to-security group's victorious 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
The firm now aims to be called Rentokil Initial Plc.
Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He added Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's turnover more than doubled to 842 million pounds from 400.9 million and shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence up from 1.23 pence.
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds to turnover and 15.1 million pounds to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact on Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds and profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds.
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence pence, up three pence in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds.
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
Plans for the integration of hospital services and hygiene and health care are also well advanced, he said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
But Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals. "We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.
($1=.6460 Pound)German chemicals group BASF AG should achieve 1996 net and pre-tax profits slightly higher than year-earlier earnings, group chief financial officer Max Dietrich Kley said on Thursday.
In a speech for delivery at a news conference in London, Kley said that this forecast might prove very conservative, given the chance for an upturn in the German economy.  
"According to our current projection, we are assuming that both profit before taxes and net income after taxes for total 1996 will be slightly higher than in 1995," Kley said.
"If there would be an economic upswing in the second half of the year, which is expected by some of our competitors, surely our prediction of today is very conservative," he added.
BASF earlier reported a rise in first-half pre-tax profit to 2.323 billion marks from 2.025 billion, boosted by favourable currency developments and better performances at its pharmaceuticals, oil and gas and crop protection businesses.  
The crop protection activities will contribute less to second half profits due to the seasonal pattern in this sector, executive chairman Juergen Strube told reporters here.
The first half profit rise was achieved despite lower results in the chemicals business where prices have fallen sharply, partly due to customers running down their stocks.
But Strube, who noted rising orders in most business areas in July, said he believed the de-stocking process had stopped as economies were picking up.
"My overall impression is that de-stocking is coming to an end. Many customers will be enhancing their stock levels to accommodate for additional orders they are expecting," he said.
"The overall business climate in central Europe is improving," he told Reuters.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769National Grid, which runs the English and Welsh high voltage electricity transmission system, called on its one million investors to help convince electricity regulator Stephen Littlechild to moderate his price review.
Following gas regulator Clare Spottiswoode's concessions to British Gas on Wednesday after a consultation period, the Grid said shareholders now had a chance to officially object to plans that could wipe up to 1.2 billion stg off revenues.
"It's (Spottiswoode's final proposals) a confirmation that it is well worthwhile for everybody to argue their point of view," a company spokesman told Reuters.  
Littlechild is proposing a one-off cut in prices in April 1997 of 20-26 percent, followed by a further four percent reduction in each of the following three years.
The Grid says the proposals announced last week will hit the revenues by 1-1.2 billion pounds over the four-year period and it reiterated its warning in an open letter on Thursday that the plans were against shareholders' interests.
"(They) will adversely effect our ability to grow dividends at a satisfactory rate," the Grid stated in a statement.  
The company, which says its own efficiency programme over the period would mean the loss of around 500 jobs, said that "obviously" job losses would increase with harsh price curbs.
The company argues the the proposals go against the spirit of "incentive regulation". The Grid said it has already cut costs by 40 percent since 1991 and does not believe there are comparable opportunities for cost reductions in the future.
Another point of contention is how Littlechild has valued its assets. Littlechild proposes to set the asset value by using the group's share price on the day of its listing.  
But shares have sunk from a high of 209 pence to 174 pence, and the company says the regulator's interpretation reduces the transmission asset value by over one billion stg, thereby reducing National Grid's income which is based on that value.
"Of course we want customers to have lower bills," wrote chairman David Jefferies in the open letter to shareholders.
"However, we believe the balance in the regulator's current proposals is tilted against your interests..."
The Grid has until September 10 to argue its case.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4017British pest control to security group Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it plans no major disposals from its acquired rival BET.
Earlier this year Rentokil won a fierce battle to buy BET for 2.1 billion stg and said that it would consider the future of BET's Plant Hire, Style and Resorts International unit.
But chief executive Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals.
"We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.Caledonia Mining Corp said Thursday it has made a significant copper and cobalt discovery in Zambia.
The deposit is in Caledonia's Kadola licence area about 40 km south of Luanshya and the Zambian Copperbelt.
The company said 12 out of 15 shallow reverse circulation holes drilled across a geochemical anomaly have struck significant copper and cobalt oxide mineralization.
The company drilled an area measuring 2.5 km by about 0.5 km.
Five holes ended in oxidized mineralization, Caledonia said.
Caledonia has been exploring in Zambia for about two years and has made three cobalt oxide discoveries in its Nama licence area to the northwest of the Copperbelt.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Four Seasons Hotels Inc said on Thursday it will hold a special meeting of shareholders on October 3 at which holders will vote on an amendment to the articles of the company dealing with share capital.
Since 1986, the family of Isadore Sharp has controlled Four Seasons through holdings of multiple voting shares, now representing roughly 65 percent of the votes attached to the company's outstanding shares.
The company said to ensure that future growth does not does not significantly alter the present voting arrangement, it will propose a change in its share structure.  
The company is proposing that the existing multiple voting shares, which each carry 12 votes, be swapped for new variable voting shares, which carry a number of votes that increases proportionately as more subordinate voting shares are issued.
The variable voting shares would therefore continue to carry about 65 percent of the voting power no matter how many subordinate voting shares are issued, Four Seasons said.
This process would be subject to a ratification vote from a majority of subordinate voting shareholders other than Isadore Sharp and his associates every three years, beginning at Four Seasons' annual meeting in the year 2000.  
Four Seasons will also propose that its articles will be amended to provide that from the time the votes are adjusted, the dividend entitlement on the variable voting shares will decrease to 50 percent of the entitlement per share of the subordinate voting shares. The subordinate voting shares will be renamed limited voting shares.
The proposal is subject to regulatory approval as well as that of a majority of the votes cast by holders of subordinate voting shares, other than Isadore Sharp and his associates. It must also win the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by holders of the multiple voting and subordinate voting shares.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996			    1995
 Shr	   loss	C$0.01     loss	C$0.10
 Net	   loss	    47     loss	   602
 Revs			14,200		    6,300
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is ZCL Composites Inc.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-81001996			    1995
 Shr			 C$0.01		   C$0.01
 Net			    110			 79
 Revs			21,001		   49,347
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.07		   C$0.19
 Net			    646		    1,795
 Revs			58,342		   76,800
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Full name is Atlantis Communications Inc
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Imasco Ltd said on Thursday that its 98-percent owned subsidiary CT Financial Services Inc has inked a deal to sell First Savings and Loan Association of Rochester to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo.
Marine Midland is a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.
Proceeds of the deal are expected to be more than C$935 million, and include the sale price of C$843 million plus a pre-closing dividend from First Federal.
Imasco said CT Financial will post a pre-tax gain of about C$320 million on the sale. The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is due to close in three to six months.  
"The North American financial services industry evolved quickly in recent years and CT Financial believes the best course of action is to sell First Federal and pursue its U.S. expansion in other ways," Imasco president and chief executive Brian Levitt said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100-- Hilliard Lyons analyst Stephen O'Neil said Thursday he upgraded his rating on Res-Care Inc to a buy from hold following the recent decline in the stock price.
-- Res-Care shares were changed at 18-1/4.
-- "Fundamentals remain strong and we forecast 20 percent annual earnings growth for (Res-Care)," O'Neil said.
-- He added the stock is a good buying opportunity for long-term growth-oriented investors.
-- His two- to three-year price target is $27 a share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.32		    $0.14
 Net			  6,879		    2,919
 Revs		     105,030		  104,831
 Avg shrs		  21,417		   21,335
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Q2 1995 results after $218,000 or $0.01 a share extraordinary charge.  
Q2 1996 amortization $439,00 vs $3,799,000.
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	 $0.65     loss	 $0.16
 Net	 profit	13,956     loss	 2,638
 Revs		     210,335		  210,947
 Avg shrs		  21,404		   16,638
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Six-month 1995 results after $0.01 a share charge.
Six-month 1996 amortization $880,000 vs $16,441,000.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Shares of Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc rose 1-1/8 to 55-1/8 on Thursday after the company said fiscal 1996 earnings likely will be on the high side of its earlier range of projections of $2.50-$2.60 a share.
Pioneer added that results for the year could exceed that range.
Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman, who has projected fiscal 1996 earnings at $2.55 a share, said the company's latest announcement was "a pleasant surprise."  
Dahlman said Pioneer's soybeans and operations in Europe and South America have been particularly strong in fiscal 1996, which ends in August.
Pioneer also said Thursday that preliminary indications are that its North American seed corn market share will be about 44 percent, down from about 45 percent a year ago.
"We went on record (in January 1996) as saying they would lose market share," Dahlman said.
Pioneer also said its North American seed field yields are expected to meet expectations, although crop maturity is running behind normal because of cooler than normal weather in the Midwest. Yields also could be affected by an early frost.
Dahlman added the chance of an early frost is a concern for the seed crop. "We can't ignore that one," he said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787(In thousands, except per share amounts)
			    Three Months Ended	Year Ended
			   1996	  1995	 1996	  1995
 Net Sales	  $ 23,759    $ 29,713   $ 93,592   $ 119,439
Cost of Goods Sold
			  20,409(a)   19,672     64,379(a)   72,858
 R&D		     1,302	 1,597	6,149	 6,210
Restructuring and Other
   Special Charges   4,431	    --	4,431	    --
Total Operating
     Expenses	 13,932	11,063     42,999	44,854
Operating (Loss)
     Profit	  (10,582)     (1,022)   (13,786)	1,727
Net (Loss) Earnings
			  (7,390)(b)  (1,058)   (10,462)(b)     206
(Loss) Earnings Per
   Common Share:	(.65)(b)    (.09)	(.93)(b)     .02
(a) Includes special charges of $5.5 million related to revised business plan.
(b) Includes pre-tax restructuring and other special charges of $9.9 million.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr	profit	  $0.13     loss	 $0.31
 Net	profit	  2,761     loss	 4,956
 Revs			91,922		   80,215
 Avg shrs		  21,129		   15,889
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Full name is Culligan Water Technologies Inc.
Current Q2 includes $0.29/shr in reorganization charges and a $0.05 a share gain on an insurance settlement associated with fire at facility in Belgium in July 1993.  
Year-ago Q2 results reduced by $0.59 a share in reorganization charges.
Reorganization charges in both years reflect non-cash amortization charges related to reorganization of former parent.
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 loss	   $0.03     loss	 $0.70
 Net	 loss	     587     loss	11,167
 Revs		     175,312		  148,982
 Avg shrs		  19,915		   15,889
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Current six-month results include $0.78 a share in reorganization charges and $0.05 a share insurance gain.
Year-ago six-month results include $1.17 a share in reorganization charges.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Swedish-British stainless steel producer Avesta Sheffield posts its results for the three months ending June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Pre-tax profit				228 vs  1,226
 Sales					 4,575 vs  6,127
 Operating profit before deprec	  322 vs  1,326
 Depreciation				  124 vs    128
 Operating profit after deprec	   198 vs  1,198
 Result before financial items	   206 vs  1,228
 Financial items		     CREDIT 22 vs	2 CHARGE
 Tax						73 vs    370
 Minorities					5 vs     10 CHARGE
 Net profit				    160 vs    846
 Earnings per shr (crowns)		1.01 vs	5.35
 Return on capital used (pct)	     11 vs     57
NOTE -- Avesta Sheffield AB lengthened its 1995 financial year to 15 months to tally with that of British Steel, which owns 51 percent of the company.
A Reuters poll of nine analysts forecast Avesta Sheffield to post a pre-tax profit of 229 million crowns for its first quarter of 1996/97.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Sweden's largest steel proucer, SSAB, posts its figures for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  1,486 vs   2,288
 Operating income			  9,406 vs   9,994
 Operating costs			   7,762 vs   7,509
 Depreciation				  362 vs     335
 Interest from other companies	    34 vs	50
 Financial items			     170 vs	88
 Minorities				     26 vs	41
 Tax					     403 vs     625
 Net profit				  1,057 vs   1,622
 Earnings per shr (crowns)		8.25 vs	12.65
NOTE -- SSAB is a Swedish steel producer.
A Reuters poll of 11 analysts found the market was forecasting an average profit before financial items of 1.42 billion crowns for the first half of 1996.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Swedish industrial gas concern AGA reports its results for six months to June 30, 1996, compared with the first half of 1995.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		    964 vs  1,117
 Sales					 6,409 vs  6,775
 Operating costs			   4,930 vs  5,113
 Capital gains			     1,794 vs    601
 Depreciation				  659 vs    656
 Net profit				  2,277 vs  1,381
 Paid tax					393 vs    230
 Deferred tax				   85 vs    102
 Minorities					3 vs	5
 EPS (crowns)				 9.37 vs	5.70
NOTE - Swedish gas company AGA was expected to post a profit after financial items of 1.09 billion crowns for the first half, according to a Reuters poll of 10 analyasts.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Swedish construction and real
estate group Skanska AB reports its results for the six months
to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  2,377 vs   1,508
 Order intake			     23,810 vs  19,721
 Sales					22,881 vs  18,856
 Operating profit after deprec	   696 vs   1,689
 Operating costs			  22,056 vs 17,321
 Depreciation				  603 vs    498
 Net interest items			  462 vs    441
 Exchange differences		CHARGE 16 vs     15 CHARGE
 Gain on share sales/participation   1,755 vs	4
 Other financial items		CREDIT 2 vs	4 CHARGE
 Tax					     592 vs    407
 Minorities				    133 vs    175
 Net profit				  1,601 vs    926
NOTE -- Skanska AB is a Swedish construction and real estate company.
A Reuters poll of eight analysts found the market was expecting Skanska to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017Six months to June 30, 1996.
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Operating profit			 2,474  vs 1,692
 Profit before loan losses	    3,379  vs 3,042
 Loan losses				  905  vs 1,350
 Interest income			 22,865  vs 24,060
 Interest costs			  17,406  vs 18,420
 Commission income			1,304  vs    902
 Profit, financial transactions	 592  vs    264
 Other income				 476  vs    564
 Total income			     7,831  vs  7,370
 Admin costs				3,771  vs  3,685
 Depreciation				 517  vs    605
 Deprec of group goodwill		  87  vs    nil
 Other operating costs		     77  vs     38
 Total costs				4,452  vs  4,328
 Profit before loan losses	    3,379  vs  3,042
 Interest net			     5,043  vs  5,204
 Shr (crowns)				6.57  vs   5.31
 Loan loss percentage		     0.5  vs    0.7
NOTE -- Full name of commercial bank is Sparbanken Sverige AB. Analysts polled by Reuters expected an operating profit of 2.52 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006The governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway, part owners of Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) would consider reducing their holdings in the carrier to increase private ownership, a senior Danish transport ministry official told Reuters on Thursday.
"This is a very long term concept tied to the purchase of new aircraft and the three governments would insist on holding on to at least 35 percent of shares in each SAS unit in the three countries," the official said.
"This would ensure that the governments could block any major changes in SAS. The governments are prepared to surrender their majority shareholdings if it is necessary to attract new capital for buying new planes," he said.
"Given European Union monopoly policies and (national) budgetary considerations, the Scandinavian governments are hardly interested in increasing their shareholding in SAS. They would prefer to allow the airline to seek funding through a possible share issue on the private market," he concluded.
Media reports say that SAS will in the coming years have to consider investing in some 50 new aircraft for European routes and an unspecified number for intercontinental services.
SAS is jointly owned by the governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway and private investors with the three Scandinavian states currently holding 50 percent of shares in each of the three local SAS units.
Sweden has a three-sevenths stake in SAS, with Denmark and Norway each holding two-sevenths.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33969652Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Life assurance		    2,210	vs	   1,458
 Non-life insurance		  649	vs	     656
 UNI Storebrand ASA		   97	vs     minus 151
 Storebrand Bank AS	   minus 14	vs	     n/a
Eliminations/
 other companies	     minus 216	vs		13
 Operating result		  2,756	vs	   1,990
Life policy holder's
 portion			     1,896	vs	   1,207
 Group result			  860	vs	     783
NOTE -- Full name of Norway's largest insurance company is UNI Storebrand ASA. Seven analysts polled by Reuters forecast the company would book a first-half group result of 683 million crowns on the average.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS 22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas.Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Operating revenue	    6,722     vs	  5,859
 Operating costs		4,966     vs	  4,573
 Depreciations		    563     vs	    400
 Operating result	     1,193     vs	    886
Result before minorities
 and tax			  1,042     vs	    854
 Pre-tax result		 1,044     vs	    857
 After-tax result		 760     vs	    617
NOTE - Full name of Norway's biggest forestry company is Norske Skogindustrier ASA. Eight analysts polled by Reuters forecast a first-half operating result of 1,181 million crowns. The company said it expected second half results to be weaker partly because of the weakening of the markets for SC and newsprint.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Six months to June 30 (in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			1,370   vs 1,196
    Group pre-tax profit		  2,323   vs 2,025
    Group sales excluding taxes	 24,267  vs 24,057
NOTE - Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted on average a 17 percent rise in pre-tax profit with estimates ranging between 2.27 billion and 2.38 billion marks. Sales were forecast to increase by three percent on average excluding gas and mineral oil taxes, with estimates ranging between 23.9 billion and 26.4 billion marks.
    Parent pre-tax profit		 1,156   vs 1,161
    Parent sales excl taxes	     10,389  vs 11,336
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525The financial group connected to Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. (IPB) said on Thursday that it had taken control over the Czech glass fibre producer Vertex a.s. .
Spokesman for IPB investment arm Prvni Investicni, Tomas Kopriva, told Reuters that the IPB Group had placed its chosen directors on Vertex's board by controlling more than 51 percent of the voting shares present at an extraordinary shareholders meeting in the eastern Czech town of Litomysl.  
"Altogether more than 51 percent voted with us," Kopriva said.
IPB has been battling for the control of Vertex with another large Czech banking group Komercni Banka a.s. .
In June and July analysts said both groups had been amassing shares in Vertex through the secondary market, helping to push the stock's price over 7,000 crowns.
The stock was down 251 crowns from Wednesday's close at 4,783 at the Prague Stock Exchange's daily fixing, prior to the results of the general meeting.
-- Radek Narovec, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003The Slovak National Property Fund (NPF) on Thursday said it would amend the recent sale of a major stake in oil and gas storage firm Nafta a.s. to include "at least" a 10 percent stake for company employees.
"The (NPF) will propose an amendment to the contract with Druha Obchodna a.s., the new owner of 45.9 percent of Nafta, stipulating the firm will have to sell a stake representing at least 10 percent of Nafta's basic capital to Nafta employees," Oto Balogh, NPF spokesman, told Reuters.  
The NPF is the state privatisation agency charged with selling state property.
Earlier on Thursday, NPF President Stefan Gavornik told the official Slovak radio that he expected the NPF presidium, the agency's executive body, to approve the amendment to contract at its meeting on August 27.
The NPF raised eyebrows at the beginning of August when it sold its entire holdings in Nafta to the private, and little- known firm Druha Obchodna for 500 million crowns, far below market value.  
Analysts have said that the parcel of shares had a market value of some 3.2 billion crowns.
Nafta shares closed at 2,000 crowns on BSE on Wednesday while the NPF sale price averaged about 400 crowns per share.
Nafta was originally included on a government list of strategic companies which would not be privatised at all, or in which the government will retain a veto right over the key decisions.
Despite the sale, the government continues to hold the veto right its so-called "golden share", which was approved by a Nafta shareholders' meeting this spring.
-- Peter Laca, Bratislava Newsroom, 42-7-210-3687The Budapest Stock Exchange (BSE) confirmed floor traders' information and said trading in the shares for hotel chain Danubius was suspended for Thursday.
"The reason is a news in daily newspaper Nepszabadsag which said that (Hungary's state privatisaton agency) APV sells HungarHotels to Danubius," a BSE spokeswoman told Reuters.
The bourse official said Danubius itself could not confirm the news.
"At this moment one cannot decide whether the news is true or not and this seriously influences the price of the share," she said. "That's why we suspended it for today."
Danubius was unable to confirm the news of the tender decision to Reuters.
Nepszabadsag reported today that the board of APV declared Danubius as the winner for the privatisation tender of Hungaria Szalloda Rt (former HungarHotels) at its meeting on Wednesday.
According to Nepszabadsag Danubius submitted the highest bid, offering more than eight billion forints for the chain which has 14 hotels.
Including the sale of Danubius employee shares APV will raise 8.8 billion forints, Nepszabadsag said.
APV will hold its regular press conference later today.
	 -- Emese Bartha, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Alliance Communications Corp said on Thursday it sold an additional 150,000 class B non-voting shares to the underwriters in its offering that closed August 7.
The shares were pruchased after underwriters exercised their over-allotment option at US$8.50 per share.
With the additional shares, Alliance said it has issued a total of 2,970,000 class B shares under the offering for proceeds of US$25.2 million.
-- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Takeover target Arequipa Resources Inc said Thursday it has not been approached by any other bidders since it accepted a C$30 a share bid from Barrick Gold Corp.
"The only reason I told Canada AM that I felt there was still a possibiity of a higher bid is that I continue to believe the company has great assets which should be valuable to another number of major international mining companies," Arequipa president Catherine McLeod said in an interview.
"But we've not been seriously approached by any other bidder since the date of our agreement with Barrick."  
On Thursday morning, McLeod told Canada AM, a morning television show on CTV, there was a 40 to 50 percent chance of another bid appearing on Thursday or Friday.
McLeod clarified the comment later in the day.
"Sometimes a surprise bid comes up at the last minute. We're not expecting one particularly," she said.
"It's always a serious possiblity but we have not been approached by anyone."
A week ago, Arequipa accepted Barrick's C$30 a share offer.  
All Arequipa directors, including McLeod, and some shareholders have agreed to tender about 23 percent of shares under a lock-up agreement with Barrick.
Arequipa has not had a change of heart, McLeod said.
"We're happy with Barrick," she said. "We think it's a terrific company. We can't think of any better gold company to develop our assets."
Under Arequipa's deal with Barrick, Barrick will receive a fee of C$18 million if there is a rival bid of at least C$31.50 a share that Barrick does not match.
Analysts have said only a few companies could afford to match Barrick's offer, which gives shareholders a choice of all cash or a mix of cash and shares.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Dominion Bond Rating Service said on Thursday it confirmed all the ratings of CT Financial Services Inc including its convertible debentures at AA (low) with a stable trend, after its deal to sell a U.S. unit.
CT Financial's ratings will remain at Pfd-1 for its senior preference shares, Pfd-1 (low) for its non-cumulative preference shares and R-1 (middle) for its short-term debt instruments.
CT Financial sold its First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc.  
DBRS said the C$935 million price is "favorable." Also, CT Financial's decision to enter the U.S. market in another fashion will not likely affect its bottom line. DBRS said "... key capital ratios will remain favorable under any scenario." CT Financial is 98 percent owned by Imasco Ltd, which is 41.5 percent owned by B.A.T Industries Plc.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Westmin Resources Ltd and Atna Resources Ltd said Thursday that their Wolverine metals deposit in Canada's Yukon territory continues to expand to the northwest.
A recently drilled hole shows a second high-grade intersection on the property, the companies said.
The results show 3.91 grams of gold per tonne over a length of two metres with a true thickness of 1.7 metres. Silver, copper, lead and zinc were also present.
A second hole struck a thicker intersection of mineralization, the companies said.
The results show a true thickness of 4.9 metres, with 1.60 grams of gold per tonne over 5.7 metres. Silver, copper, lead and zinc were also struck.
The companies will continue to drill in the area, they said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.35		   C$0.31
 Net			  3,315		    2,908
 Revs			96,537		   87,751
			  6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.52		   C$0.45
 Net			  4,866		    4,221
 Revs		     172,281		  159,621
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Teck Corp said Thursday it expects to determine within the next few days the exact amount of its gain on its 10.4 percent stake in Diamond Fields Resources Inc, which was bought out by Inco Ltd.
Teck chief financial officer John Taylor said the mining company would likely issue a news release in the next few days. The gain would be booked in the third quarter. Teck acquired its stake in Diamond Fields for C$108 million.
Inco closed Wednesday its C$4.3 billion takeover of Diamond Fields. Teck said Thursday it would issue up to C$280 million of debentures exchangeable into Inco common stock.  
Under terms of the Diamond Fields takeover, Teck will receive a mix of securities and cash including 5.5 million to 5.8 million Inco common shares.
Taylor said calculating Teck's gain must await an announcement from Inco on the exact mix of cash and securities that shareholders will receive. Teck elected to receive the maxmimum cash possible under the offer but the exact ratios depend on balancing what all shareholders choose, he said.
Inco is expected to me an announcement on final terms soon.
-- Reuters Vancouver Bureau (604) 664-7314The president of takeover target Arequipa Resources Ltd said Thursday there is a good chance another company will take on Barrick Gold Corp with a rival takeover bid for the junior gold company.
"I would say there's probably a 40 to 50 percent chance of another bid appearing, and it probably will be today or tomorrow," Arequipa president Catherine McLeod told Canada AM, a morning television show on CTV.
Arequipa has already accepted a C$30 a share offer from Barrick.  
All Arequipa directors, including McLeod, and some shareholders have agreed to tender about 23 percent of shares under a lock-up agreement with Barrick.
Under the deal, Barrick will receive a fee of C$18 million if there is a rival bid of at least C$31.50 a share that Barrick does not match.
Analysts have said ony a handful of companies would be able to top Barrick's bid, which offers Arequipa shareholders all cash or a mix of cash and shares.
Vancouver-based Arequipa's main asset is the Pierina gold deposit in Peru. Experts have speculated the deposit may have potential reserves of up to 12 million ounces of high-quality gold. But they noted exploration is still in its early stages.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Canadian Bond Rating Service said on Thursday that it reaffirmed all the ratings of CT Financial Services Inc, after its agreement to sell First Federal Savings and Loan Assocation of Rochester.
The agency said the rating outlook for CT Financial is stable.
CT Financial, whose Canada Trust is a major player in Canada's banking industry, is 98 percent owned by Imasco Ltd, which is 41.5 percent owned by B.A.T Industries Plc.  
CT Financial said on Thursday it agreed to sell First Federal to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, for more than C$935 million.
CBRS said the favourable ratings largely reflect the financial strengths of CT Financial's Canada Trust unit -- a strong market position in consumer banking, good profitability with relatively stable historical trend, excellent asset quality, strong capital levels and liquidity position and a well hedged balance sheet.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Bema Gold Corp and Arizona Star Resource Corp said Thursday they have completed a deal for a C$14 million private placement in Arizona Star.
Bema said it will purchase one million common shares of Arizona Star at C$14 per share.
The money will be used to fund Arizona Star's portion of more deep diamond drilling on the Cerro Casale gold and copper porphyry deposit at the Aldebaran property in Chile.
More drilling results from this deposit are expected within two weeks, the companies said.  
The property is 51 percent owned by Arizona and 49 percent by Bema.
Recent drilling at Cerro Casale has confirmed the existence of a major gold copper deposit beneath the existing two million ounce oxide gold deposit which is in the final feasibility stage.
Arizona Star said it also plans to use some of the proceeds to fund driling on other parts of the Aldebaran property in October.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100MDC Communications Corp, after reporting a second-quarter loss, said on Thursday it still expected substantial year-over-year gains in earnings for 1996.
The marketing and communications firm said, however, that third-quarter results would be no better than break even. MDC said the third quarter was traditionally its weakest period.  
"Our major gains are budgeted for the fourth quarter and we expect to achieve them," MDC President Miles Nadal said in a statement. "This will result in substantial year over year growth in earnings per share for the fiscal year ended December 31."
MDC reported a second quarter loss of C$0.04 per share against a profit of C$0.10 per share in the year ago period.
The company said the loss in the second quarter was due to seasonality of Regal Greetings & Gifts sales and one-time costs from the integration of House of Questa.
	  -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-81001996			    1995
 Shr	   loss	C$0.04   profit	C$0.10
 Net	   loss	   556   profit	 1,012
 Revs			45,918		   39,354
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	C$0.12   profit	C$0.17
 Net	 profit	 1,265   profit	 1,774
 Revs			93,477		   82,972
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Earnings in 1995 include a C$2.3 million gain.
The gain resulted from the renegotiation of a major premises lease.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Canada's largest department store retailer, Hudson's Bay Co, forecast better results in the year's second half as the retailer expands and consumers open their wallets.
Chief executive George Kosich said "I fully expect that the combination of increased sales due to growing consumer confidence as well as to our ongoing expansion activities, improved margins and the benefits arising from the consolidation of functions, will lead to improved results in both Zellers and the Bay over the balance of the year."  
"In our industry results of the first half of the year cannot be considered indicative of the outlook for the all important second half," Kosich said in a statement.
Hudson's Bay released its second-quarter results, which plunged from a year earlier. Profit for the period ended July 31 dropped to C$0.01 a share versus C$0.10.
ScotiaMcLeod senior vice-president Fred Ketchen said Canada's sluggish economy contributed to the poor results. "It is disappointing to see it," Ketchen said. "Canadians are just not spending their money."  
"I think it represents quite a challenge to the Bay," Ketchen added.
Hudson's Bay said it had compared this year's figures for its department store chain The Bay to "abnormally high sales in May last year as the Bay took advantage of numerous events to celebrate the company's 325th anniversary."
In the second half, the Bay will open one new store and finish a major expansion. Discount chain Zellers will open five new stores, finish 10 expansions and close three outlets.
The second half should bring more consumer spending, it said.  
"The retail climate should benefit over the balance of the year from the combination of low rates of interest and inflation and from tax reductions for many customers," it said.
Canada's major banks chopped prime lending rates to 5.75 percent from 6.0 percent, effective Friday, after the Canadian central bank dropped short-term interest rates to 4.25 percent today.
It was the seventh time the Bank of Canada dropped rates this year. Prime rates are now at their lowest level since late March in 1994.
Ontario's government has also promised to slash personal income tax rates by 30.2 percent over three years in its latest budget.
-- Lydia Zajc, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Q2 ended July 31
				1996			    1995
 Shr	 profit	C$0.01   profit	C$0.10
 Net	 profit	   374   profit	 6,063
 Revs		   1,376,281		1,396,793
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	   loss	C$0.90     loss	C$0.15
 Net	   loss	53,045     loss	 8,640
 Revs		   2,570,408		2,622,755
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)  
Note: Six months' figures in 1996 include a C$64 million restructuring loss.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Inco Ltd was down slighty on heavy volume in the first hours of trading Thursday, as investors shifted their positions after the closing of the Diamond Fields Resources takeover.
Inco's stock was down C$0.85 to C$44.90 in trading of 780,000 shares. In New York, the shares were unchanged at 32-3/4 in trading of 498,000.
"All of a sudden you've got a lot more shares and people are probably flipping it," said mining analyst Bruce Reid with Yorkton Securities.  
On Wednesday, Inco finally closed its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields and its massive nickel resources at Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
Inco has created a new class of shares to allow Diamond Fields shareholders to participate directly in the profits of the deposit.
Some Inco shareholders may still fear earnings dilution because of the takeover, but most of them have already sold their stock, Reid said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100-- Donaldson Lufkin analyst Krishna Shankar said SDL Inc continues to have difficulties with manufacturing yields in its semiconductor chip production in the current quarter, according to research provided to Reuters.
-- As a result, Shankar expects the current third quarter's revenues to be flat sequentially at $22 million, with earnings of $0.21 per share, the report said.
-- He maintained his outperform rating on the stock.
-- The analyst said the company's third quarter product shipments and gross profit margins have come under pressure due to higher production costs, according to the research.  
-- However, he warned that the margin assumptions in his current quarter estimates could be aggressive "given that the magnitude of the problems and their effect on operating results will not be known until later in the quarter."
-- The DLJ analyst maintained his fiscal year 1996 revenue estimate of $88 million and earnings estimate of $0.80 per share and the "conservative" estimates for fiscal 1997 of $115 million and $1.15 per share, the report said.
-- SDL stock tumbled as much as 13 points to a low of 15 in morning trading. By early afternoon the stock stood at 17-7/8, down 10-1/8 points since Wednesday's close.  
-- Shankar was not available for comment on the research report.
-- The manufacturing yield problem was discussed in the company's recent 10-Q filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the analyst said in the report.
-- Shankar may consider raising his fiscal 1997 earnings estimate, depending on the speed of capacity additions and if demand for its products by telecommunications and cable companies remains strong, he wrote.  
-- The analyst maintained a 12-month target price on the stock based on a 30 times multiple of his calendar 1997 earnings estimate of $1.15 per share, according to the report.
-- He continued to project a five-year secular earnings per share growth rate of 35 percent for SDL, which he said was the dominant maker of high-power semiconductor lasers and integrated optoelectronics, with a 60 percent world share.
-- The analyst's comments coincide with a move by Cowen & Co analyst Drew Peck to cut his 1996 per-share earnings estimate on SDL by $0.13 to $0.68 and to lower his 1997 estimate by $0.04 to $1.00, according to the brokerage.
-- DLJ was the underwriter of a recent offering of SDL stock and of previous share offerings by the company. Cowen was a co-manager of the recent offering.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk 212-859-1736-- EVEREN Securities Inc said Thursday it lowered its fiscal fourth quarter estimate for Nordson Corp by $0.02 a share to $1.00.
-- Fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1997 earnings estimates remain unchanged at $2.90 and $3.35 a share, respectively.
-- Nordson recently reported fiscal third quarter earnings of $0.65 a share, versus $0.80 last year, which was above EVEREN's estimate of $0.62.
-- EVEREN maintains a market performer rating on the stock with a six-month price target of $50 a share, down from $57 earlier, and an 18-month target of $58, down from $62.
-- Nordson shares rose 1-1/4 to 50-3/4.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Mattel Inc chief executive officer Jill Barad said sales of toys based on Walt Disney Co's "Hunchback of Notre Dame" film would reach $100 million, falling short of "Poconotas" toy sales in 1995.
"It's true that 'Pocohontas' will outsell 'Hunchback,' although we'll do about $100 million in 'Hunchback sales,'" the recently named chief executive told Reuters. Mattel's 1995 revenue from "Pocahontas" was $140 million, analysts said.
Still, Mattel's sales of Disney-related toys this year will top the 1995 total of $450 million, Barad said.Northwest Airlines Inc said Thursday it signed a cooperative marketing agreement with Mahalo Air which will include code-sharing on flights in the Honolulu-West Maui and Honolulu-Molokai markets.
The code-share service with Mahalo, a Hawaii-based carrier, will be effective September 15. Northwest has an existing cooperative agreement with Hawaiian Airlines Inc.
Northwest's flight code will be published and sold on Mahalo's daily service between Honolulu and Kapalua, West Maui, and between Honolulu and Molokai.
The code-share service is valid for connections at Honolulu to and from cities served by non-stop Northwest flights, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Minneapolis/St. Paul and, in Japan, Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787General Motors Corp said Thursday the suggested price for its OnStar vehicle technology system will be $895 plus dealer installation and a service fee of $22.50 per month.
OnStar is available exclusively on 1997 front-wheel-drive Cadillacs. It added that service fee is guaranteed for the next two years.
The company estimated the daily cost for both the OnStar service and individual cellular phone charges will be under $1.50 or about the equivalent of a gallon of gasoline.
OnStar integrates on-board advanced vehicle electronic architecture with Global Positioning System Satellite technology and a state-of-the-art cellular phone, General Motors said.
Onstar's services include automatic notification of front air bag deployment, emergency service, theft detection and vehicle tracking, remote door unlock, roadside assistance with location and route support.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Kellwood Co said Thursday its sales for the first quarter ended July 31 declined four percent to $327.4 million from $340.6 million due to lost volume from operations that were closed or sold.
Volume was also lower from businesses that were consolidated and restructured in the second half of the last fiscal year.
It added that consumer demand for apparel remains relatively weak.
"Kellwood has responded by taking a number of steps to improve our competitive position during a soft retail ennvironment," chairman William McKenna said in a statement. "These steps include reducing overhead, more effective sourcing, and a better product mix."
He added that Kellwood, which makes and markets apparel, also has several programs and initiatives that are expected to show results in the fiscal third quarter.
"As the second half of fiscal year 1997 unfolds, we should increasingly benefit from the refocused merchandising and sourcing strategies in the restructured business units," McKenna said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.125		    $0.125
 Pay		    Oct 10
 Record		Sept 13
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Brooks Fiber Properties Inc said Thursday it would invest more than $60 million to build and operate three fiber optic networks in the White Plains, N.Y., San Mateo, Calif., and Springfield, Mo., areas.
The networks will operate under the name of Brooks Fiber Communications, competing with services offered by NYNEX Corp, Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell and SBC Communications Inc's Southwestern Bell.
With the three new systems, Brooks Fiber will have 29 U.S. networks in operation or under construction.
Brooks Fiber plans to be in 30 markets by the end of 1996 and at least 50 by the end of 1998.
Construction of the networks will begin immediately, with services expected to be offered in the first quarter of 1997.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.15		     $0.15
 Pay		   Sept 16
 Record		 Sept 3
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Ontrack Data International Inc said Thursday it filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the sale of 2.7 million shares of common stock.
Shares to be sold include 2.0 million from the company and 700,000 by selling shareholders.
Ontrack said it expects the share offering to be priced at $10 to $12 a share. After the offering, it will have 9,602,674 shares outstanding.
The shares will be sold through an underwriting group led by Montgomery Securities, Dain Bosworth Inc and Volpe, Welty and Co.
Ontrack, which offers data recovery services, said it will grant underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional 405,000 shares to cover any over-allotments.
The company said it will use proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Best Products Co Chairman and Chief Executive Daniel Levy said Thursday he expected the company's second-quarter results to be similar to the $34.6 million loss posted in the first quarter.
He also told Reuters before the retailer's annual meeting that the second quarter could be better than the first quarter ended May 4. "We could do even better," he said.
The second-quarter results are expected to be released in September.  
Levy said seeking bankruptcy protection was not under consideration. Best emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June 1994 after 3-1/2 years.
"Bankruptcy is always possible, particularly when you lose what we are going to lose in the first half of this year," Levy said. "But this is not something we are striving to do."
The Richmond-based retailer lost $95.7 million in the fiscal year ended February 3. That was the second-largest loss in the company's history.
Levy said that Best planned to open two new stores this fall. The company announced in March that it was closing seven stores and backing out of nine new lease agreements. At the time, Best said it did not plan to open any new stores this fall. It currently operates 169 stores in 23 states.
For last year's second quarter, which ended July 29, 1995, Best posted a loss of $7.1 million, or $0.23 per share, on sales of $311.9 million.Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.07		     $0.07
 Pay		    Sept 9
 Record		 Aug 29
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr primary		$0.27		    $0.27
 Shr diluted		$0.27		    $0.26
 Net			  5,818		    5,644
 Revs		     327,435		  340,625
 Avg shrs primary	21,327		   21,132
 Avg shrs diluted	21,506		   21,505
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Gruntal & Co has moved to distance itself from an essay on airline safety written by its airline analyst Steve Lewins.
"This was not authorized or approved by Gruntal, nor does Gruntal endorse the opinions and statements expressed by Mr Lewins," Randy Bradley, Gruntal senior vice president and executive assistant to the chairman, said in a brief statement dated August 21.
Lewins told Reuters the essay dealt with airline safety and offered recommendations for improved safety and security in the skies.  
The essay was not immediately available to Reuters.
Lewins declined to give details about the essay but said it was a personal assessment and was not related to his role as Gruntal's airline analyst.
Lewins also said he agreed "wholeheartedly" with Gruntal's statement and, in fact, had suggested it be written.
Bradley's statement said Gruntal has begun an investigation "and will take all appropriate actions." Bradley said Lewins continued to be employed by Gruntal, adding only, "We are reviewing the situation."
He declined to elaborate.Shares in British pharmaceutical firm Zeneca Group set a record on Thursday amid renewed rumours Swiss giant Roche Holdings AG was nursing a takeover bid but the shares fell back as analysts dismissed the chatter.
"It would have to be a very attractive deal for (Zeneca's) shareholders," Kleinwort Benson analyst Steve Putman said of a possible bid. "I think it's unlikely for now. Whether the company disappears in two years time is a different story."
The worldwide drug industry has undergone dramatic consolidation over the last two years, making any medium size company a potential takeover candidate.
But a hostile bidder would have to pay as much as 20 pounds per share for Zeneca, said Steve Abbott, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Laing.
"I don't think there will be a hostile bid. Zeneca might find a partner to merge with in a few years time and the implied price (of Zeneca's shares) after a friendly merger could be around 1750p," Abbott said.
"You could argue that Zeneca is trading at the top end of fair value," added Putman. "The company should deliver at least 12 percent earnings growth for the next five years ... and that would put it in line with U.S. drug companies."
Putman figures 18 times 1997 earnings is close to fair value for Zeneca's shares. He's forecasting pretax profits of 1.130 billion stg in 1997 and 1.255 billion stg in 1998.
Shares in Zeneca, which reached an all-time intra-day peak of 1538p, gave up their early gains, but still were holding between 50p and 100p of takeover premium, analysts said.
Zeneca, Britain's third biggest drug company, declined to comment on the takeover speculation, but only two weeks ago, Zeneca's chief executive Sir David Barnes reiterated management's intention to remain independent.
"The company has a glowing future in front of it. We are facing very strong prospects for organic growth. There is no strategic imperative to go scurrying for shelter (with another firm)," he told Reuters in an interview earlier this month after reporting a 21 percent increase in first half profits.
"Zeneca would be a big chunk for anyone to bite off. Roche could do it, but it's not Roche's style to launch a hostile bid," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"At this stage in the cycle, anything other than an agreed upon bid or a merger is unlikely. It wouldn't make sense for Roche to make an expensive and presumably dilutive acquisition," he added. "But there's no smoke without fire. I think there's something going on somewhere."
Laing's Abbott added, "That's not to say Zeneca might not find a partner to merge with in two or three years. There are a lot of smaller companies that are never mentioned that could be good partners."Hong Kong and Taiwan-based airlines are planning autumn air cargo rates increases to their home markets from European centres, air cargo sources told Reuters said.
Air Hong Kong Ltd (AHK) plans "a small" ex-Europe to Hong Kong cargo rate increase from October and may be followed by Cathay Pacific AirWays Ltd,the latter's Dutch cargo manager said.
Achim van der Graaff, in a Reuters telephone interview from Amsterdam, said the AHK increases are planned for October 1.
"These are marginal increases and I think the market can accept a slightly higher price."
"If the AHK increase are accepted, Cathay may implement similar increases," said van der Graaff.
Cathay, which owns 75 percent of AHK is also its general sales agent in the Netherlands, in Zurich and Paris.
Van der Graaff said the usual April rates review earlier this year did not result in Cathay implementing a rate rise.
AHK chief operating officer, Stanley Hui, told Reuters on August 21 that rates on routes from Europe to Hong Kong will be raised "a little bit".
Taiwanese carrier, EVA Airways Corp said in London at end-July that it is seeking an increase of five to ten percent on all of its ex-Europe to Far East routes from mid-September.
A China Airlines source said today that winter schedule rises are being considered on the routes but "we will also wait and see what the market says."
Competition on routes to Hong Kong and Taipei has been very tough, said one source from a north Asian carrier, adding that it is not really surprising that rates increases are planned, as these are needed to try and rebuild yields. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44-171-542-7706 Fax+44-171-542-5017Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Kuwait Investment Projects Company said on Tuesday it purchased a majority stake in Saudi Arabian Dairy and Food Company.
"We bought 73 percent of SADFCO from Kuwaiti investors and a Saudi investor," an official in the Kuwaiti company said. The rest of the shares are held by Saudi citizens.
The official could not give a value for the deal but he told Reuters "the purpose of the move is to expand our operations in the Gulf."
The Kuwait firm, which has a capital of 105 million dinars ($351.2 million), is a listed investment company.
SADFCO made a net profit of 70.4 million riyals ($18.8 million) in 1995 on sales of 712.8 million riyals, the Kuwait News Agency said.
The Saudi firm has six plants in the kingdom and one in Egypt and produces tomato paste, juices, ice cream, cheeses, powdered milk and light meals, the agency added. ($1=3.75 Saudi riyals, $1=.299 Kuwaiti dinars)A rapid succession of gas discoveries in Egyptian waters off the Nile Delta are making the area one of the most promising in the world for the oil industry, a senior oil company executive said on Tuesday.
"Only now are we understanding the magnitude of the opportunity," Amoco Egypt vice president Gary Bose told Reuters in an interview. "As a whole, the basin could be world class."
Amoco, one of the leading companies in the field, has made nine discoveries in the past two years. The company and its partners have identified five trillion cubic feet in the area and that could be just the tip of the iceberg.
The oil ministry said on Tuesday that another company, Petrobel/Belayim Petroleum, had found more gas in its Port Fouad concession, north of the region's first producing gas field.
Petrobel is a joint venture between the state's Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and International Egyptian Oil Company, local subsidiary of the Italian company Agip.
Amoco and its partners have invested more than $250 million in exploration scheme in Egypt since 1992, the year it won its first Nile Delta concession, and the company plans to keep pouring money in as long as its lucky streak lasts.
"Conceivably billions of dollars could be committed if our success continues," said Bose. "Drilling has confirmed significant reserves and the potential for further finds."
"We are already committed to half a billion (dollars) to developing these fields, starting this year and up to about 2002/2003," he added.
Amoco is the largest concession holder in Egypt, with a stake in 8.4 million acres (340,000 square km). It is a partner in nine concessions in the Nile Delta area.
Amoco Egypt's exploration budget alone is $50 million this year and the same amount in 1997.
The company expects to start gas production by the end of the year from its Baltim South field, initially at a modest rate of 20 million cubic feet a day.
It will simultaneously work out development plans with its partners and the Egyptian government for the Baltim East, Temsah and then the Ras al-Barr fields, Bose said.
Amoco is still trying to define the size of the Temsah field. "It may be part of a much larger contiguous field and there's the possibility of large fields in deeper water in our and in other concessions," said Bose.
Initially the gas will go to the Egyptian market, where demand is rising fast as power stations convert to gas and the gas grid reaches new domestic and industrial consumers.
"The Egyptian market is significant but EGPC and other ministries are cooperating very effectively with the contractors to look at export markets," Bose said.
Much depends on progress in the Egyptian government's gas negotiations with Israel, the natural destination for gas exports. The plan is to build a gas pipeline across northern Sinai but Egypt and Israel have not yet agreed on the price.
"Given the potential we are also looking at liquefaction for export by tanker to Europe," said Bose.Consumer Reports magazine slapped a "Not Acceptable" label on two sport/utility vehicles Tuesday, saying the light trucks "have too great a tendency to roll over in certain situations."
The magazine said the 1995 and 1996 models of the Isuzu Trooper, made by Isuzu Motors Ltd., and the 1996 Acura SLX, also made by Isuzu but sold by Honda Motor Co. Ltd., were a danger to consumers because they "tipped up high on two wheels" in road tests.
The magazine said consumers should stop buying the models, called for an immediate recall of the approximately 35,000 cars that have been sold and said repairs or replacement models should be offered by the manufacturer.
"We don't think a vehicle that has these characteristics should do what it did when subjected to this not inconceivable situation," said Bob Knoll, director of testing for Consumer Reports' auto division, in a telephone interview
A spokesman for Isuzu defended the vehicles.
"It's very important for both consumers in general and Isuzu Trooper owners to understand very clearly that the Isuzu Trooper meets all federal safety standards and regulations," Isuzu spokesman Daniel McCue told Reuters.
But Smith Barney analyst David Garrity said the report by the influential magazine could prove damaging.
"If Consumer Reports comes out and says, 'Don't buy this product,' the sales will go down," Garrity said. "You saw what happened to the Suzuki Samurai in the '80s."
The tiny Suzuki Samurai, introduced in the mid-1980s, was also the target of a Consumer Reports article alleging that the sport/utility vehicle was prone to rollovers. The campaign eventually led to the vehicle being pulled off the market.
Garrity said the report was a blow to Honda's Acura brand, which it has worked hard to cultivate. "If I were Honda, I'd demand (of Isuzu) that the problem be fixed, and I'd be more focused on developing my own product," he said.
Consumer Reports also asked the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to investigate the Trooper and SLX and called for more stringent government oversight of vehicles with narrow wheelbases.
Government regulations currently call for all vehicles with a wheel base of 110 inches or less to carry a warning sticker stating that "sharp turns or abrupt manoeuvres" may cause the vehicle to roll over or crash.
Both the Trooper and the SLX have wheelbases of 108.7 inches.
Both companies said they were reviewing Consumer Report's test data and would look further into the matter.
Neither McCue nor Acura spokesman Mike Spencer knew of any reports from customers of their vehicles tipping or rolling over, and neither knew of any ongoing NHTSA investigation.
"We have not had an opportunity to thoroughly review the testing methodology used. Nevertheless, Acura believes the SLX is a safe and reliable vehicle when driven in a responsible manner," Spencer told Reuters.
According to Spencer, only about 1,857 SLXs have been sold since the vehicle was introduced in November, 1995.Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.
Besides Burda, with a 26-percent direct stake in Europe Online and a further seven percent in trust, shareholders included two U.S. companies, AT&T and Meigher Communications, Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
-- Lorrayne Smith, Brussels Newsroom +32 2 287 6812, Fax +32 2 230 7710Bankrupt online information service Europe Online SA logged off on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running finally bit the dust.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, a member of the team of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
The company suffered a major financial blow when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda, said in July it was pulling the plug on further funding.  
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, which included negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe and Deutsche Telekom, but no deal was reached and the company was declared bankrupt on August 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation process, who asked not to be named, said German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom had decided late last week against salvaging the operation, adding, "It would have been a pure asset deal."
Similar talks had continued with two other, unnamed parties but these too failed, the source said.
Deutsche Telekom, which was owed money by Europe Online for access to its own data network, said at the beginning of August that it remained interested in cooperation with the company.
"Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and one option was to chose the assets of Europe Online. But in the end they decided it was not worth it," the legal source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million in the form of loans by shareholders.The near-term fortunes of Swedish car maker AB Volvo, due to post its half-year results on Wednesday, are gloomy as the group battles with falling market share and higher costs, analysts said on Tuesday.
"The European car side is very disappointing, and Volvo has not yet achieved the volumes for the new small cars (S40/V40) that it expected, so it's going to be looking pretty grim," industry analyst Robert Barber of James Capel told Reuters.
Analysts polled by Reuters forecast a fall in Volvo's pre-tax earnings to 3.37 billion crowns for the first half of 1996 compared with 3.80 billion crowns for the corresponding period last year.
In its first quarter report, Volvo said operating income would be hit by the launch of new car and truck models as well as continuing investment in product and market development.
However, analysts rejected the idea that Volvo's falling profits are mainly due to a generation shift in the car and truck operations.
"It's not all down to difficulties in the production of their new car...they're also losing some market share," Barber said.
Barber said Volvo's forecast that its European car sales will rise in the second half of 1996 is questionable in the light of a 20 percent slump in European new car registrations.
Total European car sales rose six percent over the first seven months of the year, but Volvo saw its seven-month registrations figure fall 14.6 percent to 114,894 cars.
The Swedish manufacturer's woes were compounded by a slump of no less than 35 percent in July sales, bringing its European market share to a modest 1.5 percent.
In the United States, Volvo's Truck division has been hardest hit. Intense competition and a fall in total volumes have cut Volvo sales by 31 percent in the first half of 1996 with only 9,300 trucks sold compared with 13,500 a year ago.
Some analysts see last week's replacement of Volvo Trucks' top management in the United States -- just a week before the half-year report -- as a sign of panic.
Sales have also fared badly in South America with a drop of 50 percent to 2,350 trucks, mainly due to a decline in the Brazilian market, which accounts for 70 percent of sales in the region.
Analysts were divided on whether Volvo Trucks' shrinking market share is wholly due to the launch of a new model range in the autumn.
Bjorn Germer of Sweden's Matteus stockbrokers said he did not believe the launch of a new model was the only reason for Volvo Truck's recent misfortunes.
"Everyone knows the North American market is poor right now for Volvo, we want to see (in the half-year report) how bad the sitution is there," Germer said.
BZW analyst Philip Ayton said the eyes of the market would be firmly on the trucks division when Volvo presents its half-year report on Wednesday.
"North America has been flat for cars, terrible for trucks and there's been a change of management. I don't know if that's an indication of something a lot worse in way of earnings but clearly the American truck business is in loss and has probably worsened," Ayton said.The Slovak central bank (NBS) on Tuesday said it was reviewing the holdings of steel maker VSZ a.s. in bank IRB a.s. after the firm requested central bank approval for its acquisition of over 20 percent in the bank.
"While reviewing the VSZ request, we have reqested the Securities Registry (SCP) for an official statement on VSZ's (current) holdings in IRB," a NBS spokesman, Jan Onda, told Reuters. "The only information regarding the (current) stake we have as of today is controversial, from the press."  
Onda declined to comment on the issue further.
Following Slovak securities law, VSZ submitted a request to acquire a major stake in IRB bank to the central bank a week ago.
Slovak banking law states that any merger or acquisition involving more than 15 percent of a bank's basic capital must be approved by the central bank within three months from the day request is received.
Confusion surrounds the extent of VSZ holdings, which were published by the SCP recently as being 20.66 percent. The SCP has since said the figure was "mistaken".
Under Slovak securities law, the SCP must publish the names of any entity which acquires five percent of a firm, or when its total holdings in a company break the threshold of 10, 20, 30, 50 or 65 percent.
VSZ officials have said their firm currently holds a 14.65 percent stake in IRB, but said it is expected to rise to at least 20 percent, once pending purchase agreements with other IRB shareholders are approved by the central bank.
-- Tatiana Vacova, Bratislava Newsroom, 42-7-210-3687Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Albania's first and only national carrier Albanian Airlines denied a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the company was suspending flights in September because it was going bankrupt.
"It is absolutely not true that Albanian Airlines is going bankrupt," the company's sales manager Feliks Baci told Reuters. "We are fully booked every day."
Albania's largest-circulation daily Koha Jone alleged in its Tuesday edition that Albania's national carrier could be on the verge of bankruptcy after making losses of $15 million.
"Losses were planned. They do not stop our business," Baci said, adding the group had expected to have several million dollars of losses in the first four years of operation. "This is normal when starting up this kind of company," he said.
Baci declined to give specific figures. He said the company's board would meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss details of the company's future operations.
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between Albania's state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.
The company has about 150 employees.-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Cypress Semiconductor Corp with a buy rating.
-- At 10.9 times its 1997 earnings estimate of $1.03 a share, Rodman said it believes the stock is "cheap." It projects a 12-month target price of 18-1/2, or 18 times the 1997 estimate.
-- "On a risk/reward basis, we believe that downside risk exists to $9.50 or 16 percent, and the upside is roughly 64 percent," Rodman said in a report. "This is a high-volatility, high-risk equity."
-- Cypress shares closed August 20 at 11-3/8 (corrects stock quote).
-- Rodman said Cypress reported a book-to-bill ratio of 0.74 for the second quarter, compared with the industry three-month average of 0.91. "We expect (Cypress' book-to-bill ratio) to improve in the second half as the back-to-school and holiday seasons approach," Rodman said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Period ending June 30.
			     1996			  1995
 Shr			 C$0.10		   C$0.09
 Net			  4,987		    3,568
 Cash flow/shr	     0.48		     0.45
 Revs			43,965		   37,253
		MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.26		   C$0.16
 Net			 11,598		    6,258
 Cash flow/shr	     1.05		     0.92
 Revs			86,792		   74,045
 Avg shrs		  45,090		   40,081
		  (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Tarragon Oil and Gas Ltd.
	 -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Bombardier Inc said on Tuesday that it expects to announce by the end of its third quarter 30 to 35 more firm orders for its Canadair Regional Jet.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," Bombardier spokesman Michel Lord told Reuters.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by chief executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.  
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended October 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production up to January 31, 1998. The current order backlog for the Regional Jet is 40, and Bombardier is producing the 50-seat jet at a rate of five each month.
Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
"I would say that we are talking most about North America at this time, where the market is quite active and you have large regional airlines that can order a sizeable amount of aircraft in one order," Lord said.  
Lord said Bombardier is in active discussions with airlines on ordering the Regional Jet, but he declined to name them.
"We are having a lot of serious negotiations. If only half of them materialized, we could quite well fill up our 1997 year," Lord said.
Margaret Cornish-Kehoe, analyst at ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Beaudoin's forecast was well received as it was the first time Bombardier made a specific forecast on boosting its firm order book for the Regional Jet.
"I am very happy. There is no question this is very positive," Cornish-Kehoe said.  
Some analysts had been worried in recent weeks that Bombardier had not updated its order backlog for the Regional Jet from the 40 announced several months ago. In heavy trading last week and on Monday and Tuesday, Bombardier's Class B shares recovered much of the ground lost earlier on those concerns.
Cornish-Kehoe said that during the conference call Beaudoin also said he was expecting Bombardier to announce in the next few months that it would be boosting the order book for the de Havilland Dash-8 to the extent that production volumes would be filled for the next fiscal year, ending January 31, 1998.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Newbridge Networks Corp is on track for another strong year as analysts predict 30 percent profit growth, company officials said on Tuesday after release of record first quarter results.
"We're certainly looking forward to the coming quarters," Newbridge's head of investor relations, John Lawlor, told a conference call. "From a fundamental point of view, we're well on track here.
Newbridge reported earnings per share in the first quarter ended July 28 rose to US$0.51 per share from US$0.32 per share a year ago. The results exceeded street expectations of around US$0.49 per share.
Newbridge officials said analysts were projecting earnings of US$2.17 per share for the full year. They said they believe those numbers are consistent with the guidance they have been giving to analysts.
Newbridge reported that gross margins held steady at 64.8 percent in the first quarter compared with 64.8 percent in the fourth quarter. Cash balances, however, rose C$30 million to C$486 million.
	  -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Inco Ltd said Tuesday it has won permission to buy back up to 11.5 million of its common shares or 10 percent of the current public float.
The buy-back program is to start on Friday and end no later than August 22, 1997, the company said.
Inco will not need to borrow to finance the buy-back, it said in a release.
The program will be funded partly from internal cash surpluses and partly from the proceeds of possible future asset sales.  
The main reason for the repurchase program is to help offset earnings dilution that stems from the C$4.3-billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc, Inco said.
The long-awaited move will be welcomed by Inco shareholders, some of whom expressed concern about dilution when Inco won a takeover battle last spring to buy Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
The takeover is expected formally to close on Wednesday.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996			 1995
 Shr			 C$O.25		   C$0.20
 Net			 90,300		   69,500
 Revs		   1,915,200		1,476,600
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.47		   C$0.36
 Net			167,100		   133,00
 Revs		   3,519,000		2,833,000
 Avg shrs		 335,500		  332,100
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Investors with "exploration fever" have latched onto Black Swan Gold Mines Ltd, hoping drill results expected this week will line their pockets with paper profits.
"There certainly are rumors that the results they've got from their Brazilian exploration are going to be positive," said Fred Ketchen, senior vice-president at ScotiaMcLeod.
"It's all part of the current phenomenon -- exploration fever."
Black Swan was the most active stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday after heavy trading on Monday and last Friday. The stock was down C$0.05 to C$1.45 on volume of 2.6 million shares Tuesday.
But the flurry of speculative interest in the stock is not linked to anything concrete, company spokesman Richard Simpson said from the company's headquarters in Vancouver.
Drilling results from Black Swan's 50 percent-owned gold project in Brazil likely will released until later this week, he said, adding that the results are very preliminary.
"I know there'll be gold in the hole," said Simpson. "As to what grade it will be, whether it will be above or below the expectations of the market, I simply don't know. They're always looking for pretty jazzy stuff."
The rumor in the market is that the results will be good, and investors, especially institutional investors under pressure to show robust returns, are placing their bets, analysts said.
Mutual funds that burnished their performances on high returns from investments in such high-flying explorations stocks as Bre-X Resources Ltd and Diamond Fields Resources are quick to pile into junior mining shares with any hint of potential.
Although many previously Hot junior mining stocks cooled off quickly in June and July, investors seem to have forgotten their earlier rough ride, said Barry Cooper, a mining analyst at Wood Gundy.
"The 'once burned twice shy' saying doesn't work in junior gold stocks," he noted.
The attraction with Black Swan is a limited downside, since the stock has been trading around the C$1.50 mark, added ScotiaMcLeod's Ketchen.
"Whereas the upside potential, if they come up with something, can be rather impressive."
Black Swan shares its Cata Preta gold project in the Brazilian State of Minas Gerais with Sul America Mineracao Ltda, a Brazilian company.
Black Swan is in the midst of negotiating a takeover of its partner to gain a 100 percent interest in the Cata Preta and acquire Sul America's other Brazilian properties.
The drill results expected this week are from hole 23, the first of a 30-hole series expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Black Swan plans to drill a total of 150 holes to determine how much gold lies beneath a surface deposit already explored.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996			1995
 Shr			 C$0.06		   C$0.02
 Net			  2,221			677
 Cash flow/shr	     0.24		     0.14
 Revs			23,309		    9,822
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.09		   C$0.05
 Net			  3,436		    1,420
 Cash flow/shr	     0.40		     0.27
 Revs			37,356		   19,085
 Avg shrs		  39,115		   31,134
	     (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Barrington Petroleum Ltd. Second quarter 1996 results are the first to fully reflect the acquisition of Sherritt Energy Corp, which closed on May 27. Results for the period also include a one-time charge to earnings of C$570,000 in respect of an imputed interest charge.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100-- Rodman & Renshaw Inc said Tuesday it initiated coverage of Movado Group Inc with a buy rating and a 12- to 18-month price target of $29 a share.
-- Movado shares were unchanged at 18-1/8.
-- "With its fiscal 1996 (ended January 31) revenue base of $185.9 million, its current global market share is small," Rodman said in a report. "However, in the U.S. which represents about 20 percent of this $9 billion wholesale global market, (Movado) is a major player in the segments in which it competes -- namely watches with wholesale prices from $80 and up."
-- Rodman said it believes Movado is poised to continue to sustain consistent annual double-digit top- and bottom-line growth as it steadily increases its profitable market share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Netscape Communications Corp's lead antitrust lawyer has written to the U.S. Department of Justice to urge that immediate action be taken against Microsoft Corp for what Netscape called "far-reaching anti-competitive behavior."
The letter, dated August 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday, is a further escalation of a battle of words between the two companies that began earlier this month as the rivals prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
Gary Reback, an outside attorney representing Netscape, also suggested in the letter that the issue be turned back to the Federal Trade Commission for further investigation.  
The eight-page letter accuses Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers (ISPs), systems integrators and large corporations providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 screen."
The Netscape counsel said these inducements were made on the condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser."
A browser enables PC users to access the World Wide Web.  
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and Microsoft are introducing new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Netscape, which pioneered browser technology and surged on to the public stock market with a stellar initial public offering in August 1995, holds the lead with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide browser market.
But Microsoft, whose Windows systems dominate the personal computer market with about a 90 percent share, has moved quickly to gain an estimated 10 percent browser share.  
It said Monday that more than one million users have downloaded its latest Internet Explorer version in its first week of availability.  
The software, known as Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its own Navigator software.
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Netscape and Microsoft are already well along the way to developing the next version of their browser software.  
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with the Redmond, Wash.-based software company, said the alleged practices went far beyond those that had been addressed in a consent decree agreed by Microsoft and the Justice Department two years ago.
"Microsoft's behavior is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.
Reback said in an interview a number of companies had "started coming out of the trees" with compliants since a war of words began between Netscape and Microsoft two weeks ago.  
Reback urged the Department of Justice to investigate what Netscape believes was illegal conduct by Microsoft, saying the department could do so swiftly. He said many small Internet companies "now face the threat of elimination from the market by reason of Microsoft's illegal conduct."
The attorney also suggested the department's antitrust division return the matter to the Federal Trade Commission, which he said has taken a recent interest in the subject.
"In any event, we are requesting immediate attention," he said. "Time is of the essence. We know that the antitrust division has an open file with respect to Microsoft."
-- sam.perry@reuters.com, Palo Alto Bureau, +1 415 846 5400Poland's ombudsman on Tuesday challenged in court the government's handling of this year's tenders in which two international consortia gained licences to develop modern GSM cellular telephone networks.
Ombudsman Tadeusz Zielinski asked the Supreme Administrative Court to annul those terms of the licences which force the new cellular operators to use transmission facilities of state-owned telecommunications firm TPSA, he said in a statement.
The obligation violates the telecommunications and anti-trust laws, the ombudsman's spokesman Stanislaw Wilenski told Reuters.
"The licence prohibits using transmission lines other than those belonging to TPSA..., while there are at least three other enterprises which have transmission infrastructure," he said. "Thus TPSA's monopolist position was supported."
Apart from TPSA, transmission services can also be provided by the state-owned Polish Power Grid and the State Railways.
GSM licences were awarded in February to Polish and foreign consortia named  Polska Telefonia Komorkowa (PTC) and Polkomtel SA.
PTC groups, among other firms, Polish trading company Elektrim, US West of the United States and DeTeMobil, part of Deutsche Telekom.
Polkomtel comprises Polish firms including the copper combine KGHM and Petrochemia Plocka refinery as well as two major Western partners -- Tele Denmark and Air Touch.
Both companies plan to launch operations this year in some larger cities. They will compete with the current sole cellular operator Centertel SA, which uses an older analogue system.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Polish insurance company Amplico Life earned net 9.6 million zlotys in the first half of 1996, 470 percent up from the same period of last year, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.
It said the company's pre-tax profit also surged almost 400 percent to 12.65 million zlotys in the first half.
Amplico said gross premiums rose 176 percent to 90.5 million in the first half and technical reserves rose threefold to 96.4 million zlotys.
Amplico's spokeswoman Balbina Wolongiewicz told Reuters the company boosted its share of Poland's life insurance market to 7.1 percent in the first half from 4.6 percent at the end of 1995.
Amplico Life, active in Poland since 1990, is 55-percent owned by American International Group Inc (AIG) and 45-percent by Poland's state-owned bank Pekao SA.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Savings Bank, one of the leading banks in Estonia, on Tuesday said it has started quoting shares in the leading commercial banks in fellow Baltic states of Latvia and Lithuania.
Savings Bank dealer Charlie Viikberg said the bank was now quoting shares of leading Latvian bank Unibanka and the shares and global depositary receipts of key Lithuanian commercial bank Vilnius Bank.
"They are interesting for Estonian investors also," Viikberg told Reuters, but noted that it was difficult to get hold of Vilnius Bank stock in Lithuania as it was not very liquid.
Vilnius Bank recently became the first Soviet state to launch GDRs and they are quoted in Luxembourg.
News agency Baltic News Service (BNS) said Estonian bank Hansapank already quotes Unibanka and Vilnius Bank.
Viikberg said that his bank did $50,000 of business in Vilnius Bank's GDR today but nothing in Unibanka.
-- Riga Newsroom +371 7 22 66 93Serbia's Sartid Steel Works has raised production to pre-sanctions levels, producing over 200,000 tonnes of iron and steel in July, the Iron and Steel Industry Association said on Tuesday.
"Production in July almost reached the optimum use of capacity as it did in 1989 when it was 85 percent," Savo Markovic of the Association told Reuters.
In the first three months this year production was insignificant as the company prepared to resume production in the wake of war-time sanctions, he said.
In July Sartid, based in the east-Serbian town of Smederevo, produced 63,000 tonnes of iron, 74,000 tonnes of steel and 80,000 tonnes of finished products.
Sartid fired its furnace in March, and from April to the end of July produced a total of 228,000 tonnes of iron, 222,000 tonnes of steel and 222,000 tonnes of finished products.
"This production is quite good considering Sartid stopped producing iron and steel at the beginning of 1993," said Markovic. "It is even above expectations."
Sartid received about $122 million in credits in the past six months to kick-start the plant -- mostly from Swiss banks.
The money stabilised production at an average of 75 percent capacity with only one of four blast furnaces operating. Under the embargo plant ran at a mere 15 percent of its capacity.
Sartid's chief executive Dusan Matkovic last week said the plant's exports rose to $1 million a day after almost four years of idleness under the international trade embargo.
"Sartid must export and pay back its debts," Markovic said. "It cannot sell all its production on the domestic market."
The domestic market can absorb only about 15 percent of the plant's output as the republic's metal industry -- the main consumer of Sartid's products -- is still sluggish.
As much as 95 percent of Sartid's raw materials are imported -- crippling the factory during sanctions.
Sartid, according to Matkovic, plans to start its second blast furnace by the end of 1997. Its annual production then would rise to two million tonnes of steel. -- Gordana Kukic, Belgrade Newsroom, +381 11 222 4254Slovenian state-owned brown coal mine Zagorje said on Tuesday it had stopped production and started closing down all operations due to soaring costs which have left the mine reeling from losses.
"We are closing in line with the government's plan, according to which the mine will be closed by the year 1999," chief executive Matej Pozun told Reuters.
Zagorje is one of three brown coal mines that were scheduled for closure this year due to high production costs.
"Our coal production was too expensive and simply not competitive anymore. Apart from that, Slovenia, like other countries, is switching to ecologically friendlier energy sources like gas and oil," Pozun said.
He said the mine stopped being profitable over a decade ago and has regularly received state subsidies over the past 18 months.
At its peak in the early 1960s, the mine employed over 2,400 and produced up to 660,000 tonnes of coal per annum.
But by 1995, production slumped to 70,000 tonnes while the workforce totalled just 418. -- Marja Novak, Ljubljana newsroom, 386-61-125-8439RAO Vysokoskorostnye Magistrali (VSM or High-Speed Railways) will make a second 240 billion rouble one-year government-guaranteed bond issue in September, a company official said on Tuesday.
VSM plans to send the prospectus for approval to the finance ministry and central bank in the first week of September, deputy finance director Andrei Nikandrov told Reuters.
Approval is likely to take one week, he said.
The company is raising funds to build a high-speed Moscow-St Petersburg rail link.
VSM issued 120 billion roubles of government-backed bonds on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange at the beginning of the year. The securities are effectively the same as Russian OFZ interest-bearing government bonds.
OFZ bonds pay quarterly interest linked to the yield of current issues of GKO discount treasury bills.
The proceeds of the first issue went to start work on a railway terminus in St Petersburg, clearing the construction site, Nikandrov said.
Russia recently approved a $200 million British loan for constructing the terminus by U.K. construction company Taylor Woodraw Plc.
--Julie Tolkacheva, Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520Banks in the Uzbek capital Tashkent said on Tuesday the government had ordered them to stop paying out cash in the national sum currency for the rest of this month, but official sources denied such an order existed.
"They gave us an order to stop paying out cash until the beginning of next month," a spokeswoman for Uzpromstroibank, told Reuters by telephone.
She said accounts held in sum had been frozen temporarily but she had no information as to whether foreign exchange accounts were affected.
A source at another bank, Pakhta Bank, also confirmed the order but could give no further details.
Late on Monday, Interfax news agency quoted a senior finance ministry official as saying cash operations had been suspended to allow the authorities to pay wages to agricultural workers. There is a shortage of cash banknotes in Uzbekistan.
A spokesman at the Central Bank of Uzbekistan denied such an order existed. "We know nothing about this order," he said.
--Chris Bird, Almaty newsroom, +7 3272 509410Mexican cement giant Cementos Mexicanos grabbed a bigger stake in Colombia's market Tuesday with the purchase of Industrias e Inversiones Samper in a deal worth more than $275 million, trading sources said.
Carlos Caballero, president of the Bogota stock exchange, said 275 million shares in the troubled Colombian cement maker, founded in 1909 and the country's oldest,  were sold at auction late Tuesday at $1.08 per share.
The buyer, ostensibly, was Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA. But Caballero said the winning bid had been placed on behalf of Cemex.  
"It was Cemex," Caballero told Reuters in a telephone interview.
A spokesman at Cementos Diamante, another Colombian cement maker that Cemex purchased in May, declined immediate comment on the deal, saying only that a statement would be released later Tuesday.
But Caballero said Cemex's purchase of 275 million shares in Samper gave it a 93.6 percent stake in the company. He added that Cemex had agreed to pay for 55 percent of the shares directly and the remainder with a foreign credit.  
Until Tuesday's sale, a 75 percent stake in Samper had been held by Colombian financier Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo.
Samper, which fell on economic hard times in the late 1970s, is currently protected from its creditors under Colombia's bankruptcy laws.
It reported 163.6 billion pesos in assets at the end of the first quarter, however, and a net profit of 1.6 billion pesos.
With Cemex's purchase, and earlier grab for Diamante, trading sources said the Mexican cement giant is now set to become a dominant player in the Colombian cement market, which has enormous potential for growth given the country's crumbling infrastructure and an expected surge in oil revenues next year.
The current slowdown in Colombia's construction industry is also widely expected to end next year.
-- Javier Mozzo, Bogota newsroom 571 6110473.The Mexican Rice Council is firmly against the lifting of a four-year ban on Asian rice imports, the director of the private sector grouping said Tuesday.
"We radically oppose the lifting of the embargo," Antonio Lajud told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The council represents the country's 13,000 rice growers and the 23 major businesses that control 98 percent of all Mexican rice sales.
The Mexican government is allegedly planning soon to lift the ban on Asian rice that was implemented in 1992.  
"We have not even been invited to the negotiations (to lift the ban)," Lajud said.
Talks are allegedly on-going between the Agriculture Ministry and representatives from Asian governments, including Thailand, he said.
"We are not interested in buying inferior quality rice from Thailand, or Vietnam, or wherever...if the ban is lifted we just will not buy the rice," he said.
Lajud said the council intended to mobilise the industry if the ban were eased and protest such a move. "We are just not going to allow them to lift the ban," he said.  
There will be important protests by the industry," he added.
"The ban was implemented in the first place because of the serious infestations Asian imports caused in our own rice fields...we have managed to turn that around and have our sights set on self-sufficiency," he added.
Mexico slapped import ban on Asian rice back in 1992 on phytosanitary grounds, stopping imports from Thailand, Vietnam, China and Indonesia. The government claimed it found some Asian shipments were contaminated with bacteria and insects.  
Mexico bought about 40,000 of medium grade 10-15 percent Thai white rice a year before the 1992 ban. Vietnam also sold Mexico rice in the early 1990s, largely by heavily undercutting U.S. rice prices.
Mexico consumes around 400,000 tonnes of white rice, and currently produces about half that amount and imports the other 50 percent from the United States.
"This council was founded in 1994 to bring order to the market that followed the infected imports and we have done that...now they want to return to chaos again," Lajud said, adding that Agriculture Ministry officials were refusing to answer his phone calls.
Agriculture Ministry spokesmen were not immediately available for comment.
Lajud said he had heard that the ban could be lifted as soon as August 26. Such moves are published in the government's Official Gazette, and rarely given much media publicity beforehand.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.Australian resources giant, The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, said on Tuesday it was discussing with several companies the sale of its majority-owned Syama gold mine in the West African nation of Mali.
"There have been some discussions about the sale of (the mine) and they are continuing," BHP spokesman Tony Wells told Reuters.
Wells declined to comment on the value or likely price of the mine or when it was likely to conclude the sale.
Wells said South African miner Randgold & Exploration Co Ltd had expressed an interest in Syama.  
"It is one of the companies we have been holding discussions with," he said.
Syama, currently Mali's only commercial mine, has annual production of 180,000 ounces a year.
BHP shares closed on Tuesday down four cents to A$17.50.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435Qantas Airways Ltd has begun a regular air cargo service into China with the opening of a new route to Shanghai, the airline's regional general manager freight, Peter Barry, told Reuters.
Up to now Qantas had been hamstrung from carrying air cargo to and from the capital Beijing because of weight restrictions on the aircraft used, he said in a telephone interview from Singapore.
The new service is using an extended range Boeing 767 allowing six to eight tonnes of air cargo plus passengers to be carried between Sydney, Shanghai and Beijing.
The first flight to Shanghai left Sydney on Tuesday August 20, Barry said.
"We're pretty excited about because whilst it's only two flights a week, we see it as the first step of our growth in China. Business prospects are pretty healthy.
"Like everywhere else in Asia at the moment we think it's on a downward turn to a degree compared to what it has been but we think there are still pretty good opportunities," he added.
"Up to now we have carried basically zilch. Now we see an opportunity to let rip and we are quite looking forward to that. I would imagine after about a month we will be geared up and see some pretty good revenue coming out of it," Barry added.
As part of the airline's bigger presence in China, Qantas has appointed a new country manager. Shanghai-born Francis Lou has more than 20 years experience with the airline, Qantas said. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Indonesian tobacco tycoon Putera Sampoerna sharply raised on Tuesday his offer for Singapore's Transmarco Ltd as its share price surged, a move which dealers said was likely to make the bid successful.
Standard Chartered Merchant Bank Asia said on Tuesday that Miel Investment Corp, wholly owned by Sampoerna, had raised its takeover offer for Transmarco to Singapore $8.55 per share from S$6.50 bid at the weekend.
Transmarco, a trading and telecommunications firm, had suspended its share trading in mid-afternoon on Tuesday pending the announcement.
"It looks like Sampoerna is serious. I think he will be able to get more than 51 percent. Sukamto is likely to sell most of his stake to him as he might not be able to unload that much in the market," one head of institutional sales at a local brokerage told Reuters.
Indonesian-born Sukamto Sia garnered 55 percent of the company with a bid of S$6.50 per share in late 1994. He later stepped down as chairman and director and has since reduced his stake to 36.2 percent.
Sampoerna, who controls PT Hanjaya Mandala, Indonesia's largest clove cigarette maker, accumulated 8.8 million shares for a 32.1 percent stake in Transmarco by August 17. The move, made through his British Virgin Island-incorporated investment vehicle Miel Investment Corp, triggered a mandatory takeover offer.
Dealers said Sukamto was expected to bail out of Transmarco.
Sukamto is the second-largest shareholder of troubled Amcol Holdings, which is being rescued by Indonesian conglomerate Sinar Mas.
"I think Sukamto is looking to get out, now that his credibility is dented by what's happened at Amcol and banks could be squeezing him," said one dealer.
Dealers said Malaysian-owned investment company Stratford Holdings could also sell its stake to Sampoerna. Stratford has reduced its stake to 13.4 percent from 22.4 percent in recent weeks, selling 2.4 million shares for between S$4.11 and S$9.72.
Stratford bought the shares at S$13.50 each earlier in the year. Dealers said they believed some of Stratford's shares were bought by Sampoerna.
"On paper, the Malaysians could be making a loss but they could be compensated in other ways -- like future deals with Sampoerna," said a trader.
Minority shareholders, however, were more likely to sell their shares in the market as Transmarco's share price has surged above S$8.55. It hit a high of S$10 on Tuesday and was at S$9.80 when trading was suspended.
Before Sampoerna made his initial weekend offer, Transmarco shares had last traded in the open market at S$6.75.
"I think the price could keep rising and may even hit S$12 tomorrow (Wednesday)" said a dealer. Transmarco is expected to resume trading on Wednesday.
Dealers said they expected the share price to stay firmly above S$9.00, at least for the period of the offer.
But one dealer raised the concern of how long the share price could stay at such stratospheric levels.
"The key question is, who is doing the buying in the market? Funds will not be there until they know what Sampoerna intends to do with the company. At such high prices, it is not exactly cheap for punters," said the head of sales at the local brokerage.
Dealers said Sampoerna could be aiming to use Transmarco as a listing vehicle to spearhead his business in Asia.China's National NonFerrous Metals Industry Corporation has formed a large copper group to handle copper production and marketing in southern China's Yunnan province, officials said on Tuesday.
"We combined one copper processor and four mines in Yunnan to form a large-scale business and strengthen China copper's competition ability in the international market," a company official told Reuters by telephone.
The Yunnan Copper Group, with one billion yuan of registered capital and 3.2 billion yuan worth of total assets, was expected to have a capability of annually producing 100,000 tonnes of raw copper by the year 2000, the official said.
"Our annual sales income will reach seven billion yuan and pre-tax profit will reach one billion yuan by 2000," he said.
"We are now also applying for the right to conduct copper imports and exports to further expand our business," he said.
($1 = 8.3 yuan)Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646Business executives from Indonesia and Netherlands arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday to evaluate Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL), a Privatisation Commission consultant said.
Zubair Ejaz told Reuters that Setiawan Djody, chairman of Setdco group of Indonesia, and J.B. Volbeda, president of PTT Telecom Netherlands, would make an assessment of PTCL, which is being privatised.
He said the executives would meet officials of the government, the Privatisation Commission and PTCL during their three-day stay.
Pakistan, which wants to sell a 26 percent stake and transfer management control of PTCL to a strategic investor, has not yet announced a date for the sale.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as expected and pointed to steady gains in its subscribers and turnover as proof of the underlying health of the business.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically...all the key drivers of the business, we are succeeding on," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Orange, whose major shareholder is still the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
Asked to explain the fall in Orange's share price since March, Snook said it had suffered from a knock-on effect of weakness in quoted U.S technology stocks and from what he considered misplaced concern about the British mobile market.
"A lot of people do not understand what this transition process in our market place is all about," he said, referring to fears that growth in new subscribers was now slowing down.
Orange's growth in new subscribers was up on the second half of last year and "churn" -- the rate at which customers cancel their subscriptions after a year -- had now fallen to 17.6 percent, offering more secure revenues.
Snook added that Orange was one of the few mobile networks in the world that was managing to boost the average amount of revenue it gained per subscriber, with a small rise to 446 pounds per head from 444 pounds.
"Our job as the management is to keep on working on those fundamentals and we are confident that they will be reflected in the share price," he said.
Analysts said the results were in line with expectations and the fall in the churn rate was particularly encouraging.
"It's a good set of figures...some of the fears we've had in the past weren't justified," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said. ($1=.6466 Pound)The London P&I club improved its financial position last year and is ready to expand with caution, the ship-owners mutual insurer said in its 1996 annual report.
The protection and indemnity club more than doubled its accumulated reserve last year to $81.48 million from $37.69 million in 1994, while assets amounted to $372 million, up 4.8 percent.
"The club has never been in a stronger financial position. Our growing financial strength is gaining recognition in the market," chairman John Lyras said in a statement.
This was a comfortable, but not an excessive level of reserves, he told a news conference.
The London club was a medium sized club and had no plans to become one of the larger clubs, but would pursue a gradual growth strategy, Graham Edmiston, chairman of managing agent A Bilbrough & Co Ltd, said.
"It's not in our interests to be overly greedy. We shall continue our natural growth of the last few years," he said.
London club tonnage at February 19 totalled 26.97 million tonnes, up 1.18 million tonnes over the year.
The club maintained a selective new business policy, concentrating on bulk tankers and carriers, with most of its business in Europe, the Far East and Greece.
The average age of club vessels was 16.5 years compared with the world average of 18 years. The average size was 26,500 gross tonnes.
On the controversial P&I issue of limiting the additional liability on shipowners in the event of a single catastrophe, Edmiston said he expected the limit would be reduced from the current $20 billion cap.
Pressure was growing among P&I club members for the limit, which was agreed only after much debate last year, to be reduced, probably to around $2.0-3.0 billion.
Fourteen P&I clubs form the International Group and provide insurance cover for more than 95 percent of the world's merchant fleet.
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Thistle Hotels strong underlying profit growth and trading performance was welcomed as the ideal springboard for its forthcoming London flotation and share offer plans, said analysts on Tuesday.
Thistle reported a near-doubling of pretax and pre-exceptional profits to 24.1 million stg. Alex Kyriakidis, analyst at consultant Arthur Andersen said the results, which showed strong growth in London and lesser growth in other regions, would "keep the market interested."  
He added that the 10 percent cut in the valuation for the hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg was also to be welcomed, despite resulting in a 87.8 million stg exceptional charge against profits and a 116.8 million deduction in the revaluation reserve.
"Thistle is using this opportunity (the float) to clean up its house and it's given the right signal to investors," said Kyriakidis.
Thistle chief executive Robert Peel had told Reuters earlier that the downward revision was in line with the rest of the sector and mainly hit hotels outside London.
-- London newsroom +44 171 542 7717Britain's Thistle Hotels, the group behind such luxury names as London's Grosvenor and Royal Horseguards hotels, on Tuesday began the countdown to a London flotation with plans for a share offer to kick off in September.
Market watchers say a float could value the group at between one and 1.5 billion pounds ($1.5 to $2.3 billion).
Thistle plans to raise 250 million pounds in new cash through the offer. Around 100 to 150 million pounds would be used to reduce debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding room capacity, chief executive Robert Peel said.
"We would focus the money on London -- the region where we get the best returns," he told Reuters.
Thistle also announced half-year pretax pre-exceptional profits of 24.1 million pounds, a near doubling of its earnings in 1995.
But profits were hit after including a one-off charge of 87.8 million to partly account for a 10 percent cut in the valuation of its hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg.
Thistle is Britain's second biggest hotel chain, with 100 hotels, most of which are in the London area.
Its main shareholder, Brierley Investments of New Zealand, will cut its controlling 70 percent stake to less than 50 percent under the float plans, Peel said.
The other major investor, an investment arm of the Singapore government, will reduce its 30 percent stake by a similar ratio.
Small retail investors will be a key priority under sell-off plans and will be offered special benefits and discounts by the company.
"We see the retail market as two things. First, it's healthy for a company to have lots of small shareholders. Second, in a service industry we can treat them as our customer base and promote to them," he added.
Thistle said an indicative price range would be announced at the time of the share offer, which has no fixed date so far.
Some market analysts said Thistle could face some difficulty in a market which has seen a wave of flotations this year.
Conglomerate Lonrho Plc said last week that it planned to float its Princess and Metropole chains within two months with a price tag of around 700 million pounds.
Alex Kyriakidis, hotels analyst for consultants Arthur Anderson, has said that Thistle would have to price its float aggressively for a market which is already heavily exposed to an industry enjoying boom sales this year.
But Peel disagreed that demand from investors might have been dulled by earlier floats.
He also denied that a 204.6 million pound asset writedown of property values in its interim results would deter interest, despite representing a 10 percent cut in portfolio values.
The revaluation of the hotel portfolio resulted in the 87.8 million charge against profits and 116.8 million was also deducted from its revaluation reserve. ($1=.6471 Pound)P&I clubs are planning a campaign to reduce their reinsurance costs next year from the approximately $330 million paid this year.
"Shipowners cannot tolerate so much money going out on reinsurance. There must be a change," John Lyras, chairman of the London Club, told a news conference called to unveil the club's 1996 annual report.
Protection and indemnity (P&I) clubs are mutual organisations formed by shipowners to insure their vessels. There are 14 clubs worldwide which together are known as the Group.
P&I clubs have already increased the level of self insurance to 15 percent from 10 percent in an effort to inject competition and bring costs down.
Bryan Gaze, deputy chairman and finance director of the London Club's managing agent A Bilborough & Co Ltd, said his personal view was that the cost of reinsurance for P&I clubs could be cut to around $200 million next year.
"The reinsurance market has softened and softened and I anticipate a very significant reduction in premiums for next year...The Group has paid far too much for reinsurance over the past five years," he said.
P&I sources said reinsurers had not lost money on the P&I account over the last ten years, adding that they were planning a sustained campaign over the coming months to bring down their reinsurance costs.
However, some said they considered the target of $200 million was optimistic.
Most P&I reinsurance is placed in the Lloyd's of London market. The P&I initiative to cut their reinsurance bill will add to pressures on marine insurers, who are already concerned about falling rates.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society on Tuesday reported half year profits of 649 million pounds ($1 billion) and said its 10 billiion pound stock market flotation was on track for June 1997.
However, the society said its share of Britain's reviving housing market slipped as it took a 7.2 percent share of net mortage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview these levels were below its normal market share of around 20 percent because it had shied away from re-mortgaging which accounted for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.
The size of the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but are lured by another lenders -- reflects the low level of transactions from home movers, said Marsh.
One analyst said the slip reflected the society's pursuit of profits as it prepared for a stock market flotation and a distinction from those societies which did not intend to leave the mutually-owned sector.
Building societies are owned by their savers and borrowers who will share in the proceeds of the flotations of those societies which intend to become banks next year.
However, societies which intend to remain owned by their members say they can undercut the mortgage rates offered by their soon-to-be-banking rivals as they do not have to satisify shareholders' demands for profits.
Marsh said Halifax members -- savers and borrowers -- would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the new transfer document early next year.
They will vote on the flotation in February 1997 which means the flotation would probably take place in June, he added.
Most of the ten largest societies are seeking flotations to become banks because they say this gives them the ability to diversify from their traditional home-loan provider roots.
Halifax is already diversifing. It is in the process of merging with insurance group Clerical Medical and merged last year with rival building society Leeds Permanent.
This, along with the flotation, means further acquisitions are unlikely this year. "We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.
He said that so far this year net mortgage lending is eight billion pounds and forecasts a figure of 16 billion pounds by year-end. But that is dwarfed by the 40 billion pounds of net lending in the boom year of 1988, said Marsh.
"Transactions are still at very low levels...but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh, adding the housing market was showing signs of making a sustainable recovery which would avoid the previous boom/bust cycle.
The pick-up in the housing market has been fuelled by a low inflation, low interest environment, Halifax said, pointing to the lowest mortgage rates in Britain for 30 years.
But a further cut in the Bank of England's official 5.75 percent base rate might not feed through to mortgages.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh.
Halifax's benchmark standard variable mortgage rate is 6.99 percent, higher then the the largest remaining building society Nationwide which has a 6.49 percent rate.
Halifax said its 649 million pounds of half year profits represents a rise of six percent rise over the six month period to January 31. It is changing its year end from January 31 to December 31. ($1=.6466 Pound)Turkish steel wire and rope producer Celik Halat is likely to miss its 1996 export and domestic sales targets due to contraction in domestic and international markets, a senior firm official said.
"Our export target was to match the 1995 level of $17 million. We think we will push up our exports to $15 million in 1996, 15 percent below the target," Gunay, board member and general manager of the company, told Reuters in an interview.
He blamed poor export performance on "recession in Western markets."
The company is not able to achieve its target of increasing 1995 domestic sales by 15 percent because of political crisis in the first half of the year in which state run customers halted purchases, he said.
The firm's 1995 domestic sales were 1.06 trillion lira.
Many state companies did not open tender during the political turmoil which erupted in late September 1995 and hampered the economy.
"But we are hopeful for the future begining from 1997. We started a $6 million production capacity expansion investment. About $2.5 million of it will be realised this year," Gunay added.
Celik Halat is now searching for new export markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Portugal, Slovenia and Hungary.
Despite bleak picture in 1996, Gunay said Celik Halat needed to increase its capacity.
"Because we are operating almost at full capacity with three shifts a day...our total production capacity will climb to 47,000 tonnes from the current 41,000 tonnes."
Celik Halat has a 65 percent stake in the domestic market.
A new competitor -- Beksa, a joint venture of Turkey's leading Sabanci Group and Belgium's Bekaert -- has begun test production.
"We don't expect Beksa to enter into market and create competition before 1998," Gunay said. "We will be competing in steel wires which are used in tyre manufacturing after then."
"Cheap products from the East European countries are our main problem. They are cheaper by some 40 percent," he said.
The company has applied to the Foreign Trade Undersecretary last week with damping charges against East European goods.
Celik Halat sells steel wires to tyre producers in Turkey, like Bridgestone, Goodyear and Pirelli.
The company reported 1.21 trillion lira of total sales in the first half, up from 806 billion lira in the same 1995 period. Its net profit went up to 158 billion lira from 49 billion.Power-hungry Turkey, facing energy shortages later this year, has pinned hopes on natural gas from Iran and development of its first nuclear power station on the southern coast for its long-term needs.
Recai Kutan, energy minister of the Islamist coalition government that struck a multi-billion dollar gas supply deal with Iran last week, said power generation from nuclear energy was inevitable despite environmentalist concerns.
"Nuclear power is a must for Turkey," he told a meeting of businessmen in the western city of Izmit.
"We cannot build big hydroenergy power plants every year. We must make use of our nuclear energy potential," he said in remarks carried by Anatolian news agency.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan signed the $23-billion landmark deal with Iran to get gas via a pipeline to be built from the Iranian city of Tabriz to Ankara, beginning in 1999. Turkey is to buy a total of 190 billion cubic metres by 2022.
The deal sparked controvery as it came shortly after the United States, Turkey's NATO ally, issued a law to punish companies investing more than $40 million in energy projects in Iran and Libya.
The U.S. later said it had yet to see details of the agreement to see whether Turkey was liable under the new legislation -- designed, says Washington, to punish states that back terrorism.
Ankara said a last minute change was made in the agreement not to breach the U.S. ban by deleting reference to Turkey's involvement in the building of the pipeline's section through Iranian territory.
Turkey, which uses gas chiefly for domestic use, consumes nearly nine billion cubic metres of gas annually with imports mainly from Russia. The Iranian deal will supply an initial three billion cubic metres from 1999.
Turkey is expected to produce 93.1 billion kiloWatt-hours (kWh) of power this year, up eight percent from last year, against a projected consumption of 97.5 billion kWh.
Officials said the short-term supply shortfall would be met by imports from neighbouring countries.
Ugur Dogan, energy ministry under secretary, said Turkey would soon begin electricity purchases from Iran through an existing grid with its eastern neighbour.
"We will soon buy an initial 25 megaWatts (MW) of power from Iran through existing lines. Later in the year we will raise it to 100 MW," he told Reuters. The line's capacity will be raised to 720 MW, he said.
He said Turkey was also negotiating with Georgia and Bulgaria for power imports from end-1996 or early 1997.
Kutan said Turkey was seeking to revive a 30-year-old plan to build a nuclear power plant at Akkuyu on the Mediterranean coast. Previous governments shelved the plan after protests from residents, local politicians and environmental activists.
Officials said the government would later invite an international tender to build the plant, originally designed to have a power capacity of 1,000 MW to 1,400-MW and produce up to 10 billion kWh annually -- nearly 10 percent of Turkey's needs. Its total cost is estimated at $3 to $5 billion.
Turkey had been self-sufficient in electricity for years but lack of investments blamed on a stagnant build-operate-transfer (BOT) model, led to shortages.
The obstacles were aggravated by a constitutional court ruling in early 1990s that all government deals to be carried out by consortia involving foreign companies would have to be inspected by the Council of State.
The decision has delayed at least seven power projects which would produce about 1,000 MW and were worth around $2.6 billion, according to official figures.
The government later devised an alternate model to promote production via coal-fired plants, which supplied 36 percent of national output of 86.3 billion kWh in 1995.
Earlier this year the previous government allowed private industrial companies to produce their own power and sell any surplus to the state distributor TEDAS.
Such production accounted for 10 percent of the total national power output in 1995.
Undersecretary Dogan said the government planned to re-open four coal-fired power plants in western Turkey shut down in 1994 after environmentalists won court cases.
"We are having desulphurisation units built at chimneys to minimise air pollution at those four plants. We will open them as soon as possible," he said.Rogers Communications Inc said on Tuesday it inked a deal with with MDC Communications Corp under which MDC will buy Rogers' wholly held cheque printing unit Davis + Henderson.
Davis + Henderson, the largest producer of cheques in Canada, was acquired as part of the 1994 takeover of Maclean Hunter. The deal is due to close by September 30, and is conditional upon signing a definitive agreement.  
Davis + Henderson is expected to generate revenues in excess of C$80 million in fiscal 1996, MDC said in a separate statement. The unit employs more than 750 people at seven plants in Canada and one in the United States.
The company's U.S. unit, the Check Gallery Inc, operates in the direct-to-consumer cheque business in the United States serving 900,000 customers.
MDC said the revenue from this business is growing at a rate of 50 percent per year. MDC will fund the purchase by bank facilities.
Financial terms of the acquisition were not disclosed.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.03		   C$0.01
 Net			  1,400			400
 Cash flow/shr	     0.26		     0.29
 Revs			24,600		   28,600
			   6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.05		   C$0.04
 Net			  2,700		    1,800
 Cash flow/shr	     0.50		     0.57
 Revs			50,000		   50,000
 Avg shrs		  58,000		   51,000
		 (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Biomira Inc and Neoprobe Corp said on Tuesday they signed a deal under which Biomira granted Neoprobe an exclusive worldwide license to use Biomira's radiolabeled murine monoclonal antibody MAb-170 in Neoprobe's RIGS technology for surgical detection of breast cancer.
Neoprobe plans to conduct a Phase I clinical trial involving up to 45 women who are undergoing breast conserving surgery, the company said.
Roughly 73,000 cancer patients have this type of surgery every year in the U.S. and that number is expected to rise to more than 87,000 a year in the next 10 years.  
In Neoprobe's RIGS approach, the Biomira antibody is injected into the patient before surgery.
It then attaches to the cancerous tissue and the surgeon uses Neoprobe's hand-held gamma-detecting probe to identify where the antibody has accumulated in diseased tissue which may not have been recognizable by touch or sight.
Neoprobe has received an upfront fee and will get milestone payments and royalties upon commercialization of a RIGS product using the Biomira molecule. Neoprobe has the option to license another Biomira molecule, MAb-174.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996			  1995
 Shr			 C$0.12		   C$0.04
 Net			  2,457			681
 Cash flow/shr	     0.40		     0.30
 Revs			17,436		   13,656
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.23		   C$0.10
 Net			  4,346		    1,666
 Cash flow/shr	     0.79		     0.62
 Revs			33,817		   26,658
 Avg shrs		  18,759		   17,517
		  (All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Harrowston Inc said on Tuesday its 65 percent unit Marsulex Inc signed definitive deals to buy the assets of Coulton Chemical Co of Ohio and the shares of Sulconam Inc of Montreal.
The total cost of the two deals will be roughly C$128 million cash, the company said.
The acquisitions are expected to close next month following final due diligence and appropriate consents. The Sulconam acquisition is also contingent on the waived rights of first refusal by existing shareholders.
North York, Ontario-based Marsulex is an environmental services firm which provides removal services for useable sulphur by-products for the mining, oil refining and chemical industries. These by-products are converted into useable industrial chemicals including sulphuric acid, liquid sulphur dioxide and elemental sulphur and then sold.
Coulton operates plants in Toledo and Cairo, Ohio, and provides sulphuric acid regeneration services to oil refineries and chemical companies in the Midwestern U.S. market. Sulconam removes impurities from the process streams of two oil refineries in Montreal, Quebec.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Full House Resorts Inc and Dreamport Inc said Tuesday their Midway Slots and Racebook gaming and entertainment facility was approved by the Delaware State Lottery.
Dreamport is the gaming and entertainment unit of GTECH Corp.
The 35,000-square-foot facility, developed by a Full House and Dreamport joint venture, has 500 gaming devices including slot machines and a 150-seat simulcast parlor and racebook with individual television screens for players.
The Full House/Dreamport joint venture financed and developed the project, and will act as manager of the gaming facility under a 15-year management contract.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Newcor Inc said Tuesday it has a good outlook for the fiscal fourth quarter that began August 1, since customer requirements for the parts produced by the components and assemblies segment are generally strong during this period.
It added that its special machines segment assembly and ship schedules are forecast to be much higher compared with the third quarter, and start-up and integration costs will not be as high as they were in the third quarter.
Earlier, Newcor reported third quarter earnings of $0.13 a share, compared with earnings from continuing operations of $0.05 a year ago.
Newcor added that there is a "good level" of interest in its Machine Tool and Eonic divisions. As previously announced, the divisions are being sold.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Medtronic Inc said Tuesday it acquired the assets of the Sensors Business Unit of Drager Medical Electronics of Best, the Netherlands.
Financial terms were not disclosed.
The Drager sensors unit makes invasive pressure transducers, consisting of a silicon chip sensor and connector. The sensor and connector are incorporated into a catheter-shaped housing that can be maneuvered or implanted in the brain to assess cerebrospinal fluid accumulation, Medtronic said.  
Through its sensors unit, Drager Medical offers two families of catheter-based pressure-monitoring products, both designed to be compatible with modern external patient monitoring equipment, Medtronic said.
Microtransducer catheters for neurological, cardiovascular and urodynamic applications are grouped into one product family. The second features the Ventconrol MTC designed for placement in the ventricles of the brain, enabling continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid while simultaneously monitoring intracranal pressure.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Co said Tuesday it expects to improve its financial performance in fiscal 1997 and in the future.
Earlier, Knape & Vogt, which makes shelving and home furnishing and storage items, reported a loss of $0.78 a share after $0.48 in charges for the fourth quarter ended June 30. A year ago, its fourth quarter income was $0.37 a share.
Sales for the quarter were $40.3 million, up from $40.1 million a year ago.
For fiscal 1996, it earned $0.01 a share after charges, compared with year-ago income of $1.40 a share. Fiscal year sales were $163.0 million, down from $168.2 million.
"Although we are disappointed with sales and earnings in fiscal 1996, our recent actions position Knape & Vogt for improved performance in fiscal 1997 and beyond," Allan Perry, president, said in a statement. "We are taking aggressive action to revitalize sales and enhance shareholder value."
The company said one of the early benefits from its restructuring is expected to be an improvement in company-wide plant utilization. It reiterated that annual savings from the restructuring are expected to be about $0.40 a share, spread across fiscal 1997 and 1998.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Snap-on Inc said Tuesday its Snap-on Tools Co unit agreed with Penske Auto Centers Inc to provide car care and maintenance equipment for more than 800 Penske automotive service centers.
The centers are located in Kmart Corp store locations across the country.
"Our goal is to deliver a complete solution to the vehicle service industry," Branko Beronja, senior vice president, said in a statement. "This agreement demonstrates our ability to offer a full range of diagnostic, under-car and under-hood service equipment, as well as training, service and product support to the automotive service business owner."
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Dayton Hudson Corp, which reported higher second quarter earnings, said it epects to see continued improvement in the performance of its department store division.
"Our second quarter results reflect exceptional profit performance at Target and a significant turnaround in profitability at Mervyn's," Bob Ulrich, chairman, said in a statement. "We remain on track with the repositioning of our Department Store Division and continue to expect their improved financial performance in the second half."  
Earlier, Dayton reported second quarter fully diluted earnings of $0.42 a share, up from $0.11 a year ago.
Dayton said its Target division's operating profit for the quarter rose 66 percent to $240 million, compared with $144 million a year ago. Target's total revenues rose 16 percent and comparable store revenues gained seven percent.
Its Mervyn's division had a rise in operating profit in the second quarter to $54 million from $3 million, although  sales dropped three percent and comparable-store sales fell five percent.
The department store division had a drop in second quarter operating profit to $10 million from $24 million. Total revenues fell two percent from a year ago and comparable-store revenues declined four percent.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787(In thousands except per share data)
     Three Months Ended June 30,	    Year Ended June 30,
		  1996     1995  % Change   1996    1995  % Change
 Net sales   $69,988 $62,514    12%   $291,766 $269,306     8%
Cost of sales
		  53,219  52,944     1%    229,262  208,176    10%
Gross margin
		  16,769   9,570    75%     62,504   61,130     2%
Restructuring
   Charge	   --	--     --	5,212	 --     --
Operating income (loss)
		   3,486  (1,051)  432%	4,601   15,641  (71%)
Net Income
   (loss)	1,473 (1,252)   218%	  337    8,221  (96%)
Earnings (loss)
    per share   0.09  (0.07)   229%	 0.02     0.49  (96%)
Average shares outstanding
		  16,820  16,820     --     16,820   16,820     --
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787The Austrian unit of Swedish furniture retailer IKEA said on Tuesday it planned to open two new outlets in Austria within the next two to three years.
Company spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters IKEA Austria was looking to build new stores in northern Vienna and the western city of Innsbruck to complement the country's existing three IKEA stores.
"Plans for the buildings themselves do not yet exist but we have concrete plans to build them," spokeswoman Silvia Losert told Reuters.
No details of the planned investment in the new stores were immediately available.
Losert said the Innsbruck site had already been purchased, but the company was still looking for an appropriate site in northern Vienna. She said the Innsbruck sales floor would cover an area of 9,000 to 10,000 square metres. No details of the future Vienna outlet were available.
-- Vienna newsroom +43 1 531 12 257Metals firm Metaleurop said on Tuesday it planned to restart lead production at its Nordenham smelter in Germany in early September.
"We are aiming for a restart in early September. That is what is planned and there have been no changes so far," a company spokeswoman told Reuters.
Metaleurop, a subsidiary of Preussag, announced in late July it was closing down the smelter to make technical modifications after some months of experience with its new bath technology.
The smelter started producing lead in March.  
Metaleurop had said output at the new 90,000 tonne plant was to be limited to 70 percent of capacity during the first 12 months of operation.
The spokeswoman said the production target may be adjusted after the restart.
Because of recurring technical problems Nordenham had been producing less lead than initially expected, she said.
Asked if this meant Nordenham would not meet its initial output target for the first 12 months of operation, she said, "We should be below our target but at this stage we cannot say by how much."
Deliveries to customers have not been affected by the closure as Metaleurop was able to secure lead mainly from its Noyelle-Godault plant in France.
Because of a traditional slowdown in orders during the summer, the company did not need to buy extra lead on an already tight physical market, she said.
-- Dominique Vidalon, Paris newsroom +331 4221 5432Phoenix airport officials said they foresee an air cargo boom from new non-stop European services from Britain and Germany.
Phoenix Airport marketing director Ann Hastings said cargo has risen 39 percent so far this year and she expected still higher annual growth.
Cargo volumes at Phoenix, the 17th busiest passenger airport in the world, grew 11.3 percent to 286,666 US tons in 1995.
Hastings told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "As we work in Europe to gain more carriers, cargo will grow."
British Airways now flies daily from Gatwick and LTU will start a weekly Duesseldorf to Phoenix in November.
"Cargo has been a small area of our business because freight was trucked to Los Angeles to the freighters for Europe and Asia," Hastings said.
"We know from business clients they want to ship more from Arizona because they would save money and time," she added.
"British Airways has been surprised at the amount of cargo they can get for Phoenix. They have more committed than they can handle."
Companies in nearby Sun Valley include Honeywell Inc, Intel Corp, Motorola Inc and McDonnell Douglas Corp, she noted. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Officials at Phoenix, Arizona, airport said they aim to win Deutsche Lufthansa and KLM NV as new clients on the heels of British Airways and LTU International Airways.
Phoenix marketing director Ann Hastings said she aims to establish several European routes to the Arizona state capital over the next 18 months.
She told Reuters in a telephone interview while on a Germany sales tour: "We want to plan with Lufthansa or KLM within the next 18 months."
These could be the parent airlines or their respective charter subsidiaries, Condor and Martinair, she noted.
British Airways launched the first international service to Phoenix on July 1 with the start of a daily DC-10 flight from Gatwick.
German leisure airline LTU has announced it will start a weekly Monday service from Duesseldorf on November 4.
Hastings said: "Our top priority is to ensure and support these two initial European routes because the success of these routes will influence other airlines."
She noted: "Travellers are very familiar with California and Florida and want new destinations. Arizona is tipped to be the next 'in' destination."
Germany is Arizona's largest European passenger travel market followed by the UK, she added.
Phoenix Airport handled 27.8 million passengers in 1995, a rise of 8.7 percent, with an approximate 50-50 mix of leisure and business travellers, she added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish construction and real estate group Skanska is forecast to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns for the first half of 1996, a Reuters poll of eight analysts found on Tuesday.
This compared to a profit after financial items of 1.72 billion crowns in the same period a year ago.
Forecasts for the six months to June 30, 1996, varied between 2.80 billion crowns and 3.33 billion with a median of 3.10 billion crowns.
For the full year, analysts forecast an average profit after financial items of 4.25 billion crowns.
Forecasts varied between 4.00 billion and 4.50 billion crowns.
Skanska is due to release its half year profit on August 22.
  (MLN SKR)		 AVG	  MEDIAN	 RANGE
 H1 Profit after fin    3,099	3,199     2,800- 3,326
 1996 profit after fin  4,249	4,288     4,000- 4,500
 H1 sales		  22,180	22,500   19,700-24,900
 1996 sales		44,280	43,000   37,700-50,000
-- Anette Moller, Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1008Swedish mining company Trelleborg AB reports for the six months to June 30, 1996 compared with a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		    657 vs    954
 Sales					10,618 vs 11,100
 Operating profit after deprec	   511 vs    721
 Operating costs			   9,719 vs  9,993
 Operating profit before depreciation  899 vs  1,107
 Depreciation				  388 vs    386
 Operating profit after deprec	   511 vs    721
 Net interest income		 CREDIT 89 vs    270 CHARGE
 Currency difference		 CREDIT 15 vs     13 CHARGE
 Share in other company results	   52 vs    515
 Tax					     182 vs    309
 Minorities					0 vs	9
 Net profit				    475 vs    636
 Shr (crowns)				 4.05 vs   5.40
NOTE -- Trelleborg AB is a Swedish mining and minerals group.
A Reuters poll found analysts expected the company to report a profit after financial items and costs of 700 million crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Portuguese state-controlled cement group Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal has potential to invest up to 250 billion escudos ($1.6 billion) in foreign acquisitions up to the year 2001, a company source said on Tuesday.
The source said the investment plan depended on Cimpor's ability to maintain cash flow and not to allow debts to reach 30 percent of total assets. Cimpor has negligible debt now.
"We will only make the investment if we find the right opportunities," the source told Reuters.
"We would be interested in making an investment if the expected profit exceeded the capital costs. We are looking for interesting opportunities for investment."
Cimpor would seek possible investments after the scheduled privatisation of a 45 percent stake in the company expected in October, the source said.
Cimpor was considering Spain, South America, and northern and southern Africa as potential areas to acquire cement manufacturers, the source added.
This month Cimpor bought Moroccan cement firm Asment Temara for 11.8 billion escudos ($77 million).
It also owns a subsidiary in Spain, Corporacion Noroeste, and in Mozambique, Empresa de Cimentos de Mocambique.
Cimpor shares stood at 3,370 escudos, up five, in volume of 10,750 shares on Lisbon bourse in early afternoon trade.
-- David Brough, Lisbon newsroom +351-1-3538254Heavylift Volgadnepr Airlines said it will be operating three Antonov 124 charter flights between Chateauroux and Ulyanovsk early next month carrying vehicles taking part in the Paris-Moscow-Peking Master rally.
"Three flights are scheduled for September 7 and 8, with approximately 40 jeep-type vehicles, 10 trucks and between 20 and 30 motorcycles being shipped," a Heavylift official told Reuters.
The AN-124 aircraft can carry up to 150 tonnes and the Chateauroux-Ulyanovsk charters will also transport helicopters to be used in the television coverage of the rally and broadcasting equipment, the official added.
The rally will start at the Trocadero -- near the Eiffel Tower in Paris -- where the vehicles and motorcyles in competition will undergo techincal check-ups before travelling down to Chateauroux to take part in a prologue event at the airport, a Chateauroux airport authority official said.
"The rally's organisers were impressed by the uncongested facilities at the airport coupled with the length of the runway, a package which enabled us to beat off competition from the Paris airports, Lyon and Marseille," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish engineering group Atlas Copco reports for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year earlier.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		 1,567  vs  1,395
 Pct of invoiced sales		   12.7  vs   11.9
 Invoiced sales			  12,374  vs 11,687
 New orders				12,982  vs 12,622
 Operating profit after deprec	1,491  vs  1,294
 Pct of invoiced sales		   12.0  vs   11.1
 Operating costs			 10,500  vs 10,062
 Depreciation				 383  vs    331
 Interest net				  68  vs     77
 Dividends received			   7  vs	1
 Foreign exchange difference   CREDIT   1  vs     20  CHARGE
 Taxes					  531  vs    491
 Minorities				    13  vs     15
 Net profit				 1,023  vs    889
 Earnings per shr (crowns)	     5.57  vs   4.84
NOTE -- Atlas Copco AB is a Swedish engineering group that makes compressors and industrial tools,
A Reuters poll of 13 analysts found the average forecast for Atlas Copco's half year profit after financial items was 1.52 billion crowns. The company's sales were forecast at 12.50 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017Thistle Hotels Plc said on Tuesday that London would be the main target in the hotelier's expansion plans after it floats on the London stock market and launches its share offer in September.
The float is expected to value the company at between one billion and 1.5 billion stg. Of the 250 million stg in new cash raised under the offer, Thistle's chief executive Robert Peel told Reuters that around 100-150 million stg would be used to pay down debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding its room capacity.Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday its stock market flotation was on track for June 1997 and its members would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the transfer document in early 1997.
The push towards conversion to bank status, plus the integration of rival society Leeds Permanent and insurance group Clerical Medical, means further acquisitions would be unlikely this year, spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview.
"We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.  
He said the society always looked at merger opportunities but would not pursue any acquisitions if they risked delaying its flotation, first announced in November 1994.
The owner-members of the mutually-owned society -- its savers and borrowers -- will vote on the flotation plans in February 1997, Marsh said, with the flotation probably in June, provided it gets the go-ahead from its regulator.
Halifax's flotation is expected to bring the biggest single boost to share ownership in Britain. With an estimated size of 10 billion stg, it dwarfs the planned flotations of the other societies intending to seek bank status.  
Marsh said the integration costs of Clerical Medical were not likely to be great and that further job cuts as a result of the merger with Leeds Permanent were not expected.
It has already said it expects to cut 200 jobs in its head office by the end of 1997 as a result of the Leeds merger.
The merger with Clerical Medical is expected to be completed by the end of the year, Halifax said.
Halifax said its financial services arm achieved 23 million stg of profits in the first half of the year, compared with seven million stg in the six months to January 1996.  
The society said it had changed its financial year end from January 31 to December 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charge for merger and integration costs.
Overall, it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.
It said its retail banking arm took 8.0 percent of new current accounts, compared with a market share of existing stock of three percent.
Growth in personal loans was 22 percent in the six months to June and the amount borrowed on credit cards grew 10 percent.  
It set up a new Halifax General Insurance unit in April 1996 to manage its general lines personal insurance and said it was gradually bringing in-house the responsibility for product design, premium collection and claims handling.
To develop a capital structure for its conversion to bank status, Halifax said it had issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
It said total assets rose to over 100 billion stg and its gross capital ratio rose from 7.99 percent to 8.64 percent.
Halifax said it had cut its cost/income ratio to 41.4 percent from 43.0 percent and said it took a 54 million stg charge for provisions, slightly up on the previous six months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday another quarter point cut in official interests would not necessarily lead to further falls in Britain's historically low mortgage rates.
Halifax, which plans a stock market flotation next year, took a 7.2 percent share of net mortgage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
This level is below its normal market share of around 20 percent, Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview, because the society has shied away from re-mortgaging which accounts for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.  
Pricing in the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but shift their lender -- deterred the Halifax from competing actively, the society said.
"Given our size and position we can stand back," said Marsh.
Halifax's much-watched house price index for the 12 months to July showed a 5.3 percent rise.
"All the signs are that the recovery is sustainable," said Marsh. "We could well see houes price inflation in the 5.0 to 7.0 percent bracket for the next year or so," he added.
Such a rise would avoid a boom and bust scenario and at last see house prices rise above the rate of inflation, said Marsh.  
Mortgage rates, at their lowest for 30 years, may not fall further even if the Bank of England cuts its official 5.75 percent official base rate.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh, although he said Halifax would look to see how its competitors reacted to such a cut.
"(Mortgage rates) are at or around their trough," said Marsh.
The size of the re-mortgage market is accounted for the by the low level of transactions -- home movers -- in the market.  
"Transactions are still at very low levels....but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh.
So far this year net lending is eight billion stg, which the Halifax forecasts will reach 16 billion stg by year end. That compares with 40 billion stg in the boom year of 1988, he said.
He said Halifax's profits in the first half of the year would have been 64 million stg higher if the society had not written off its mortgage incentives -- discounted rates and cashbacks -- straight away.
Halifax said it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.  
Before exceptionals that was a six percent rise compared with the six month period to January 31.
Halifax said it had changed its year end from January 31 to Dcember 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charged for merger and integration costs.
The society said it was increasingly confident about the state of the housing market. "With a more disciplined marketing environment we see more profitable organic growth in mortgage lending emerging in the second half of this year and into the next," the society said.
-- Jill Treanor, London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113Mobil Corp's Australian subsidiary said on Tuesday that Gippsland crude oil was still being piped to Shell Australia Ltd despite earlier statements by Mobil that it was taking proportionally more Gippsland crude to entirely offset Shell's normal intake.
"It's not a total offset. They're (Shell) still getting some (Gippsland crude)," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
Gippsland crude oil is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.  
Shell Australia has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
Mobil earlier said its Altona refinery in Melbourne had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude intake with imports. Mobil has sold a crude oil cargo that it ordered two months ago.
-- Melbourne Bureau 61-3 9286-1435Mobil Australia Ltd said on Tuesday its 108,000 barrels-per-day Altona refinery in Melbourne was expected to be back at around 80 percent of normal output by Wednesday morning, following the repair of its cracking unit.
"The cracker is being tested at moment and we're expecting on spec product to be produced tomorrow ... morning," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
The refinery's cracker extracts gas, gasoline, diesel and LPG products after the crude distillation proces.  
The refinery, which is currently running at 60 percent, would remain at sub-peak output until next week while repairs were carried out to one of its three distillation units, the Mobil spokeswoman said.
She said the refinery had switched to 100 percent Gippsland crude input from its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.
"At the moment we're running on 100 percent Gippsland crude and that's because Shell aren't taking any crude from Gippsland so we need to take their share. We've in fact just sold a cargo we had on the way," she said.  
The spokeswoman said the cargo had been ordered for the refinery two months ago but she was unable to elaborate on the cargo's size or to whom it was sold.
She also could not comment on current total daily crude oil input levels.
Gippsland crude accounts for about half of the refinery's normal crude supplies.
It is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.  
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery, which has been at partial production since August 13, took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude oil at normal operating levels.
Shell Australia Ltd has reduced its crude oil intake due to a strike over work practices which has reduced production at its Geelong refinery and stopped distribution from its shipping and Lara LPG terminals.
A Shell spokesman was not immediately available for comment.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435Carter Holt Harvey Ltd, one of the rival bidders for state-owned Forestry Corp of New Zealand, said on Tuesday it was simply outpriced by the winning Fletcher Challenge-led consortium.
"I think the essential thing was that they put the best price on the table," CHH Forests Chief Executive Devon McLean told Reuters. "It was a price that we were not in a position to reach," he said.
"We saw it as a good opportunity...at the right price. We bid as good a price as we could and we were not successful."  
McLean said CHH already had a large forest resource that was continuing to increase in terms of woodflow.
"It will increase 50 percent over the next 10 years so it is not a question of us being short of fibre. We have plenty of plans in place for further wood processing from our own estate."
CHH, just over half owned by International Paper, was in a joint venture with Maori group Te Ama Ltd and Malaysia's Jaya Tiasa for FCNZ, which has 188,000 hectares of plantation forests in the central North Island.  
The government earlier announced a sale to a consortium comprising Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments Ltd and China's Citic, for NZ$2.026 billion.
-- Wellington Newsroom (64-4-4734746)New Zealand's government is to sell state-owned Forestry Corporation to a consortium of Fletcher Challenge, Brierley Investments and China's Citic, a government source said on Tuesday.
He told Reuters the Fletcher consortium plans to invest NZ$16 million in Forestry Corp's Waipa sawmill and has plans for a NZ$200 million particleboard factory to be built by the year 2000.Qantas Airways Ltd is expected to fly slightly above its prospectus net profit forecast of A$237 million for the year to June 30, 1996 but analysts said 1996/97 results could hit some turbulence over current wage talks.
Australian aviation analysts expect Qantas to report an annual net profit before abnormals of between A$237 million and A$249 million. The airline is expected to pay a second half dividend of 13 cents, making a total of 16.5 for the year.  
Analysts said the Qantas result would be helped by lower costs, on which the airline has focussed since it became a publicly-owned company in July 1995.
"We have got an official figure of A$237 (million), but I really expect it to be around the A$240 to A$245 million mark and that would be largely driven by the cash flow being steered towards paying off debt," a Melbourne analyst said.
ANZ McCaughan aviation analyst Yasmin Allen expects Qantas to report a profit of A$237 million for 1995/96. "I would not be surprised to see it come in above that," Allen told Reuters.  
Another Melbourne-based aviation analyst forecast Qantas to report a net profit right on the prospectus forecast of A$237 million while one Sydney-based analyst forecast a net profit before abnormals of A$239.1 million for the year.
"They have done well on the cost reduction side and they have seen the market grow, but they have lost market share, so add all that up and I think they will come out about square," the second Melbourne-based analyst said.
Last week the Department of Transport released data showing that Qantas, including wholly-owned Australia Asia Airlines, had a 37.9 percent international market share in April.  
Qantas, which is 25 percent owned by British Airways Plc, forecast in its 1995 prospectus that its international market share would be 41.1 percent for the June 30, 1996 year.
Qantas, known as the 'flying Kangaroo' estimated a one percentage point variation from this forecast would affect the bottom line profit by A$48 million.
However, analysts said they were more interested in comments about Qantas' outlook for the 1996/97 year, as costs may increase, arising from current wage talks, renewed domestic competition, and continued pressure on international routes.  
Qantas has offered an eight percent pay rise over two years over two years on condition that productivity reforms are implemented, but unions want productivity gains to be rewarded by a wage rise over and above the eight percent offer.
Qantas shares took a dive to a record low of A$1.87 on July 24 as the market got the jitters that management had conceded to union pressure and award a wage rise above eight percent.
The unions initially made a claim for two consecutive annual wage rises of 10 percent but last month, Qantas chief executive James Strong said this claim would wipe out the airline's profit if successful.  
Qantas shares have now moved back to familiar territory and on Tuesday were trading at A$2.17.
Analysts expect Qantas to report a net profit before abnormals of between A$260 million to A$273 million for 1996/97, but some analysts said they would be ready to mark down these numbers if there were some very negative comments from Qantas.
They said the planned purchase by Air New Zealand Ltd of a 50 percent stake in local airline Ansett Airlines Ltd may pressure the 1996/97 results  
"People have known what 96 will look like but 97 is going to be a different story for a whole mix of things and there should also be some impact from a combined Ansett/Air New Zealand when that starts to happen later this year," the Sydney analyst said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373 1800A century after live ostriches were first brought to Australia for the millinery trade, a new industry is tempting the Asian market with ostrich sashimi, ostrich stir fry and ostrich steak.
Like camels and water buffalo, Australia's ostriches began to run wild after demand for their services -- in this case, for feathers for hats --- was killed by changing fashion.
Now they have been rounded up, new birds have been imported and a breeding programme has increased the number of Australian ostriches to about 60,000 from 45,000 a year ago.
First exports of Australian ostrich meat have begun to Singapore, Japan and Hong Kong in 500 kg (1,100-lb) shipments.
Exports also have also been made to the United States and strong inquiries are being received from Europe, says Chas Dale, general manager of Australian Ostrich Co Ltd (AOC).
Dale says he can only guess at how big ostrich meat exports might become. But in aiming for a niche in Asia's food trade, prospects for ostrich farming are bigger than ever.
"Its potential is on a giant scale," Gary Allen, chairman of AOC, told Reuters.
The AOC started regularly processing ostriches only in July and the company believes it will take a couple of years before the Australian industry completes the transition from breeding to commercial operation.
The commercial stage will be reached when the industry has about 30,000 breeding hens, compared with less than 10,000 breeders at present, Dale said.
About 4,000 Australians now have some form of investment in the industry, the membership of the Australian Ostrich Association has grown to about 2,700 members, and an Ostrich Odyssey '96 convention in Adelaide featured what AOC describes as "a far sighted, ambitious agribusiness plan".
The main focus is on ostrich meat, but the industry is also aiming to provide premium leathers, oils and by-products.
Where is ostrich meat's market edge when AOC sells at A$35.00 a kg, more than double the price of a prime beef steak?
And why would Asia go for Australian ostrich meat rather than the South African original?
Dale admits ostrich meat is not cheap, describing it as near the top of the restaurant price scale.
But there is increasing recognition of health value, with ostrich meat at only 0.5 percent fat, he said.
Furthermore, tenderness made ostrich sashimi "absolutely beautiful," while Singapore was delighted with a stir fry ostrich combination, he said.
So far Australian ostrich meat exports are mainly for traditional Western steak-type meals. But AOC is working with Asian tasters to find out what this huge market wants.
AOC's target is exports of about 100 tonnes of ostrich meat over the next 12 months.
Australian ostrich producers believe they will establish leadership in Asia by focusing on the region and meeting its unique culinary tastes, not simply supplying bulk meat.
The native South African ostrich is very different from Australia's big bird, the emu, which is mainly farmed for its body oil.
Ostrich meat is not as gamey as emu, ostriches have two toes, emus three, and ostriches are about three times bigger.El Al Israel Airlines is considering using a Boeing 747 aircraft for its weekly Tel Aviv to Hong Kong service, providing another seven tonnes of cargo capacity and a non-stop service, the carrier's general manager for China, Hong Kong and east Asia, Abraham Roter said.
He was speaking to Reuters in a telephone interview from Beijing.
An informal air services agreement currently exists between the two countries which allows the Israeli flag carrier to offer a once weekly service on Thursdays from Hong Kong to Tel Aviv with a refuelling stop in Tashkent.
Roter said the airline is now considering a Boeing 747 -- instead of the current Boeing 767 -- which would increase cargo capacity from 10 to 17 tonnes and be non-stop from Tel Aviv. But he said the return flight would have a stop, possibly in Bombay.
"The route is getting better and we could utilise better capacity for the passenger. Negotiations towards a bilateral agreement have been going on for almost a year between the two governments. They have still to be signed but that is a formality," Roter said.
"We would like to intensify our operation in the Far East because we believe there is tremendous potential here. And with the continuation of the Middle East peace process we can see a big market for tourism in the eastern Mediterranean for people from this part of the world," he added.
El Al now fly to six Asian destinations: Hong Kong, Beijing, South Korea, Bangkok, Delhi and Bombay.
A Hong Kong government spokeswoman confirmed that talks had taken place between Israel and Hong Kong to review the current informal arrangement. She said a formal air services agreement is not needed for El Al flights to continue after next year's Hong Kong handover to China.
"We have informal agreements with many other countries of which Israel is one and it has been reviewed. There may have been changes to the confidential memorandum of understanding between the countries but even if it had been changed it would not be disclosed," she said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS) unveiled ambitious plans on Tuesday to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subsidiary of telecoms giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.  
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system would also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through its gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system, noting that the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.  
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations that will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said the company is considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.The contract backlog of Philippine construction giant DMCI Holdings Inc rose sharply to 8.1 billion pesos as of August this year due to the flurry of construction activity in the country, an official of the company said on Tuesday.
"Our contract orders has risen to 8.1 billion pesos as of August from only 2.2 billion pesos as of June 1995," the official told Reuters in a phone interview.  
DMCI's share price jumped 75 centavos to close at 17.75 pesos on Tuesday on talk of the robust growth in the firm's contract backlog.
"The sharp increase in our contract orders indicates the level of construction activity in the country and DMCI's increased construction capability," the DMCI official said.
The increase in DMCI's construction capability could be gauged from the rise in its manpower to 16,000 from 9,000 last year, she said.
--Manila newsroom (632) 841-89-36, fax 817-62-67Operations at Saudi Arabia's second largest export refinery at Jubail should return to normal on Wednesday following a small fire at the refinery's hydro-cracking unit, a company official said on Tuesday.
"We had a small fire (on Saturday) but it didn't disturb exports. We had naphtha in our tanks and we used our stocks. We will resume operations tomorrow," he told Reuters.
The Jubail refinery will shut down in November for 30 days of scheduled maintenance to change the catalyst used at the plant's main hydrocracking unit.
The official said the company used the fire as an opportunity to inspect the unit ahead of the November work.
Jubail is jointly operated by Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.Chip producer Austria Mikro Systeme International AG said on Tuesday it expects parent sales and earnings in the second half of 1996 to be on a par with those posted in the first six months.
Earlier, AMS reported parent first-half sales of 710.4 million schillings versus 814 million, pre-tax of 128.35 million versus 102.15 million and net profit of 102.33 million versus 102.15 million.  
"Sales in the second half will not stand out because of any extreme hikes," chief executive Horst Gebert told Reuters. -- Vienna newsroom, +431 531 12274Dutch financial services group Internationale Nederlanden Groep NV is expected to announce a leap of up to 32 percent in net profit on Thursday, August 22, with banking outstripping insurance in earnings growth.
Analysts polled by Reuters estimate net profits in the first half of calendar 1996 at between 1.46 billion and 1.56 billion guilders, compared with 1.18 billion a year earlier.
They said the growth rate was largely the result of the 42 percent surge in first quarter profits, when banking activities in emerging markets such as Latin America bounced back from losses in the same period of 1995.
"In the second quarter they faced a far more difficult comparison base, particularly on the banking side," said Heinie Hakker at BZW Nederland.
Analysts see profits before tax from banking as high as 1.09 billion guilders, a gain of 46 percent from the first half of 1995, with most of this increase coming in the first quarter.
Interim pre-tax insurance profits are forecast to have risen by between 11 and 17 percent to between 1.10 billion and 1.16 billion.
Analysts were divided however over whether Barings, the British merchant bank bought for 1.7 billion guilders in March 1995, would be profitable after interest charges.
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said ING's banking activities benefitted from many of the same factors as rival ABN AMRO's, such as buoyant financial markets.
But he added: "The insurance activities are having a dampening effect on the result."
Pluijgers said he would be interested in whether ING made more provisions for future costs, including losses on aircraft leasing, after making no such allowances in the first quarter.
Bart van der Feen de Lille of IRIS Research said ING's trading and commission income would have grown strongly but not as fast as at ABN AMRO, which has a greater relative exposure to equities markets and less to bond markets than ING.
ABN AMRO last week posted a 36 percent jump in interim net profit at 1.7 billion guilders, helped by booming share markets which boosted trading income and fees from share offerings.
CS First Boston analyst Kishore Banger said ING's first quarter profits were exceptional because of banking but he saw insurance providing a solid increase in the second quarter.
He also expected double digit growth in insurance profits in the first six months of 1996.
"Where's there's scope for a surprise (in the half year), it's on the banking side," Banger added.
-- Garry West, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS
20/08 Van Ommeren	H1	   43.3   38.8-48	 38.7
20/08 Pakhoed	    H1	   58.8     55-63	 62.0
21/08 Nedlloyd	   Q2	  -10.8    -20- 0	 19.0
22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas. -- Amsterdam newsroom, +31 20 504 5000 (FAX 31-20-504-5040)French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux has agreed to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds ($619 million) on replacement trains over the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds ($194.3 million) in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds ($4.3 million).
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds ($55.3 million) per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds ($187.2 million).
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds ($38.7 million) on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks.Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
A joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said. These will then be incorporated into a final filing to respective governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, he said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.Industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average UK domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46.36) per year in 1997, rising to to over 50 pounds in 2001.  
These final proposals follow a draft released in May when the watchdog said TransCo, which is British Gas biggest moneymaker, should cut charges between by 20 to 28 percent in the year from April 1997, and by five percent thereafter.
"If the proposals are accepted (by British Gas), TransCo's customers will benefit from substantial price cuts from April 1997 and continuing real price reductions in the following years," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode said.
British Gas said in an initial reaction to the long-awaited decision that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject the proposed regime. "We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
Shares in British Gas initially rose on the news and were indicated 10 pence higher at 208 before the official start of trading on the London Stock Exchange.Privately-owned Qatar Airways will take delivery of its fourth Boeing 727 next week, chief executive Sheikh Hamad bin Ali bin Jabr al-Thani said on Wednesday.
"The used aircraft was purchased last month. It is coming next week," Sheikh Hamad told Reuters, adding that it was bought from General Electric Co's leasing subsidiary General Electric Capital Aviation (GECAS).
He did not give the cost of the new plane.
The 727 will bring the two-year-old carrier's fleet to six -- four 727s and two 747s. Sheikh Hamad said the airline had in June sold its third 747 to a private buyer.
The airline has long-term plans to increase its fleet.
"We are planning to take the narrow-bodies up to six and also add a freighter. We are actively in the market discussing with various leasing companies," he said.
"It continues our plan to make Doha one of the important air locations in the Gulf," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Netscape Communications Corp.'s lead antitrust lawyer has written the Justice Department urging it to take immediate action against Microsoft Corp. for what he characterised as "far-reaching, anti-competitive behaviour."
The letter demanding "immediate attention" was dated Aug. 12 and made available to Reuters Tuesday. It represents a further escalation of a battle of words between the rival companies that began earlier this month as they prepared to issue new versions of Internet browser software.
Gary Reback, the outside attorney representing Netscape, also suggested in the letter to Deputy Assistant Attorney General Joel Klein that the issue be turned over to the Federal Trade Commission for further investigation.
The eight-page letter accused Microsoft of having made written offers to computer makers, Internet service providers, large corporations and others providing for "either clandestine side payments, discounts on the Microsoft desktop operating system (Windows) or payments in the form of 'real estate' on the Windows 95 (opening) screen."
Reback says these inducements were made on condition that the parties involved would "make competitors' browsers far less accessible to users than Microsoft's own browser." A browser enables computer users to access the Internet's World Wide Web.
The letter said Netscape had "uncovered numerous additional steps that Microsoft has taken for the purpose of eliminating competition in the Internet software markets," including predatory pricing and bundling of products.
Microsoft spokeswoman Claire Lematta dismissed the letter, saying it "appears to be full of wild and unsubstantiated statements."
"It looks to us like a marketing document masquerading as a legal document," she said. "Netscape must be feeling the competitive pressure."
The legal clash comes at a critical point as both Netscape and the Redmond, Wash.-based software giant introduce new versions of their respective browsers, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer.
Mountain View, Calif.-based Netscape, an early leader in browser technology, holds the lead in market share with an estimated 80 percent or more of the worldwide market.
But Microsoft, whose Windows systems are found in about 90 percent of personal computers, has moved quickly to gain an estimated 10 percent of the browser market and says more than 1 million people have downloaded its latest browser ,version.
That software, Internet Explorer 3.0, was formally introduced just a week ago. On Monday, Netscape launched the latest version of its browser, Navigator 3.0
Both companies have linked up with content providers to offer free trial subscriptions as a way of promoting their browsers. Analysts have said that Microsoft, which has thrown its marketing and financial clout into Internet products, has leveled the playing field with its latest software.
Microsoft and Netscape are also already well along the way to developing the next versions of their browsers.
Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer known for spearheading past legal tussles with Microsoft, said the alleged practices went far beyond those which had been addressed in a consent decree reached by Microsoft and the Justice Department just two years ago.
"Microsoft's behaviour is, if anything, more anti-competitive and pernicious than the conduct addressed specifically in the decree," Reback wrote in the letter.A potentially cost-saving dairy cattle feed invention unveiled on Wednesday strengthened Finnish Raision Tehtaat Oy's image as an innovative food group and was immediately reflected in its share price, analysts said.
"The company's image has strengthened significantly within one year," Finnish Aktia Bank analyst Ritva Ojala told Reuters, referring to the company's new invention and Benecol, a cholesterol-reducing margarine Raisio launched early this year.
That has helped its stock rise by more than 400 percent in one year.
Raisio said it had developed and patented a feed mix formula containing an amino acid called histidine which could cut the cost of feeding dairy cattle by reducing the need for protein. It said it could be commercially viable in the next few years.
It said six grammes of histidine had the same effect on milk output as one kilogramme of protein feed.
"Raisio has done successful reseach in paper chemicals, but Benecol and the cattle feed finding show that the company really makes efforts to seek innovations in high volume products," Ojala said.
But analysts said it was too early to estimate the commercial prospects of the cattle feed finding.
"It remains to be seen how important it is, but we are positive towards the continued development in their R&D," said Kleinwort Benson analyst Michael Finney in London.
"We believe it is too early to upgrade our forecasts on the back of this, but we are still positive towards the share," he added.
An analyst at a Finnish bank said the dairy cattle feed discovery was still at a very preliminary stage compared to the Benecol margarine, and it may take many years until Raisio gets any commercial benefit from it.
"However, there may be potential, and every new invention in the animal feeds industry is important, since margins there have recently been under pressure due to higher raw material costs," she said, requesting anonymity.
The share market welcomed the new finding and Raisio shares rose sharply in lively trade after the announcement.
Raisio jumped to 322.00 markka before dipping back to 315,00, up 17.00, in late Helsinki dealings after heavy volumes.
---Helsinki Newsroom +358-0-680 50 248Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo posted a slightly higher-than-expected first half profit on Wednesday, prompting a sigh of relief from financial markets.
Analysts had expressed concern about Volvo's performance in the first six months as the group battled against falling market share, higher costs and a production generation shift.
But a first half pre-tax profit of 3.86 billion swedish crowns ($584.1 million) on sales of 78.06 billion crowns against 5.33 billion crowns a year ago on 85.13 billion crowns sales appeased market fears, coming in a touch higher than the forecast 3.37 billion crowns.
Although sales were largely unchanged, analysts were relieved to see the car unit back in the black in the second quarter after two red quarters and the weaker performance of the truck unit, foreshadowed last week, not as bad as feared.
"We are feeling rather good about the rest of the year," analyst Bjorn Germer from Matteus brokerage told Reuters.
Volvo's share price edged up about four crowns after the report was released but the relief quickly wore off and Volvo closed 1.5 crowns lower at 136.5 crowns.
Analysts said the first half report reflected the new slimline Volvo, which has been actively divesting since 1994 to concentrate on its core automotive businesses, spinning off units ranging from seafood to stockbroking.
"The mix of the business has changed and we are almost into a phase now where we will just look at core operations," Salomon Bros analyst John Lawson told Reuters.
"The second quarter has given a reminder of what will be a fairly constant pattern over the next couple of years."
Volvo chief executive officer Soren Gyll said the company's divestment plan was virtually complete and first half earnings benefitted from net interest income of 633 million crowns and gains of 453 million crowns on the sale of shares.
But he said in the company report that the group's structural and industrial transformation was continuing.
"The group's two largest operating sectors, Volvo Cars and Volvo Trucks, are in a period of aggressive change," Gyll said.
From the half-year results, analysts said Volvo Car seemed to be over the worst, posting an operating profit of 187 million crowns on sales of 39.83 billion crowns after two consecutive quarters of losses.
The company's new medium-sized S40/V40 models appeared to be winning market acceptance with problems of long delivery times improving.
Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson told Reuters that the unit expected to improve profitability this autumn as the S40/V40 series replaces the older 400-series.
However Volvo's truck division was stalling.
Gyll said Volvo Truck delivered a total of 33,240 medium-heavy and heavy trucks in the first six months of 1996, a 13 percent drop from 1995.
Last week Volvo announced a major cost-cutting drive and a change of top management at its truck division in the U.S., saying performance this year had been unsatisfactory and the unit had suffered substantial - but undisclosed - losses.
"A restructuring programme is under way but a significant loss is also anticipated in the second half," Gyll said.
Volvo Truck's managing director Karl-Erling Trogen told Reuters that losses in North America would continue.
Analysts were forecasting Volvo to post a full year pre-tax profit of between 5.4-6.8 billion crowns.
($1=6.608 Swedish Crown)Swedish insurer Trygg-Hansa on Wednesday reported a sharp jump in earnings for the first half of the year, saying a thorough reorganisation of the group had started to pay off.
Trygg-Hansa's pre-tax profit increased to 1.52 billion crowns ($230.5 million), a 27 percent improvement on the 1.20 billion crowns posted in the corresponding period last year.
The increase was bolstered by a 29 percent jump in profits from the non-life insurance business, and by a sharply improved return on the group's asset portfolio.
Capital gains and unrealised changes in value in the portfolio improved to 1.19 billion crowns from 848 million in the same 1995 period.
Although a fall in direct yield on shares and bonds to 729 million crowns from 834 million offset some of the gains, the total return on capital improved to 1.82 billion crowns from 1.62 billion crowns.
"It is with great satisfaction that I note that the thorough process of change that Trygg-Hansa is going through has begun to have results," group CEO Lars Thunell said in the company's interim results statement.
Trygg-Hansa has implemented an efficiency drive that it says will cut costs in its claims department alone by 200 million crowns a year.
Total operating costs for the period declined to 582 million crowns from 684 million in the first half of 1995.
Chief Financial Officer Zaid Pedersen told Reuters he was particularly pleased by the improved performance from insurance operations.
"In the longer term, it's very important that the core business does well," he said.
The improvement in the return on the investment portfolio was primarily the result of a sharp fall in interest rates over the first half, a trend that had bolstered the value of the bond portfolio and fuelled a rise in share prices.
Although the positive development in this area would continue for the rest of the year, Pedersen said investors should not expect a similar leap in the second half.
"Some of these are one-off gains here influenced by market developments. You can't multiply this result by two for the year, that would be too good, I guess," he said.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1006 ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)The loss-making North American trucks division of Swedish vehicle maker Volvo AB will break even in the first half of 1997, Volvo Trucks managing director Karl-Erik Trogen said on Wednesday.
"Our losses in North America will narrow in the first half of 1997. Some time during the first half of next year we will arrive at zero in our operating result," he told Reuters in an interview.
Volvo trucks operating result weakened sharply in first-half 1996 to 1.08 billion crowns from 2.94 billion. Trogen said a weak market and lower sales in north and south America were behind the fall.
-- Stcokholm newsroom +46 8 700 1006Profitability at Volvo Car, the biggest division of Swedish automotive group AB Volvo, will improve during autumn as its new S40/V40 car series replaces the older 400-series, Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson said on Wednesday.
"The profitability of the 400 series is useless. The S40/V40 is bringing a change of profitability that will have obvious implications," Johannesson told Reuters in an interview.
He declined to give a precise forecast for Volvo car sales for the second half of 1996 after Volvo car reported a small operating profit of 378 million crowns in Q2 1996 following two quarters of losses.
"The main reason is that we have achieved balance and managed to bring operating costs under control," he said.
The car division's sales fell 7.0 percent to 39.83 billion crowns in the first half of 1996, but new orders for its medium-sized car sector rose 11 percent thanks to the introduction of the new series.
"So far we have received 41,000 client orders for the S40/V40 and produced 30,000 of the new models. We are now over our planned rate of production for the model and are looking for total production this year of between 65,000 and 70,000," Johannesson added.
-- Henrik Alberius, Stockholm newsroom +46 8-700 1250Swedish truck maker Scania denied on Wednesday a German magazine report that it is negotiating with Germany's Volkswagen.
"We are not involved in any discussions with VW. Our only cooperation is that we market their products -- VW, Porsche, Seat and Skoda -- in Sweden," Scania spokesman Lars Christiansson told Reuters.
"Manager Magazin" reported on Tuesday that Scania and VW were negotiating on joint production of a middle-sized truck.
-- Henrik Alberius, Stockholm newsroom +46 8 700 1250Asian nations are eager to make use of the Internet in the field of banking and finance to meet individual country's needs, a senior official of computer group Hewlett-Packard Co said on Wednesday.
"The response through the region is quite phenomenal," Jeff Ayton, the region's director of marketing in the financial services division of Hewlett-Packard, told Reuters in an interview.
He said a Hewlett-Packard roadshow he held across the region revealed a keen interest in the use of Internet in banking and insurance. Internet experts say customers can use the network to transact business and banks can improve communications and customer service with its help.
"I don't think any Asian country wants to be left behind," he said, but added that the exact level of sophistication in the demand generated would depend on customer needs and infrastructure facilities in each nation.
With even rural areas now linked via satellites, there is a big potential for Internet-linked business in huge emerging markets, he said.
"Satellite technology is what will help in countries like China and India," he said, referring to their own satellite launch programmes.
Ayton said he had found interest in using the Internet in banking in the Philippines, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea.
Hewlett-Packard officials say that countries like India could leapfrog in computer networking technology because they have not yet invested huge amounts in computer infrastructure.
Ayton said he was scheduled to meet Indian banking officials next week to discuss Internet-related possibilities in the field.
Kapi Attawar, a senior Hewlett-Packard official dealing with emerging markets, said his company saw particular potential for the "Intranet". The latter enables local networks within companies to be linked to the worldwide information highway.
Many Indian companies already had local computing networks using basic data transmission facilities which may be used to hook on to Internet, Attawar said.Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently amount to 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of specialised railway carriages had hampered the ministry's attemtps to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said, adding that some 790,000 tonnes of lignite were already extracted and ready for shipment at mines across the country.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather settled in earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants, forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes during summer and up to 140,000 in the cold winter months.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to up output and gobble more coal than normal, he said.
"So far, Renel recieved approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data showed Romania extracted 23 million tonnes lignite and 3.47 million tonnes hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romania's coal production fell sharply after the December 1989 fall of communist rule. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines operated with bucket wheel excavators, conveyors, trucks and stackers. The remainder is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Investment by foreign oil firms in Ecuador will not be affected by the government decision to halt the operations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp, Energy and Mines Minister Alfredo Adoum said Wednesday.
"This is going to reassure all the other companies because they know that now they are all covered by the same rules. No one can have privileges," he said.
The government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador. 
Maxus, which has been operating fields near the Colombian border for the past nine years, is the only one of the foreign companies producing Ecuadoran oil which does not have a production-sharing agreement with the government. It has been engaged in tough negotiations over new contract terms.
Adoum said the government has pressed Maxus several times to sign a contract but the firm, which is a unit of Argentina's largest energy concern YPF SA, has put off taking a decision.
"Maxus has been reluctant, giving 1,000 excuses," he said. 
Ecuadoran law requires foreign firms to grant the state a share equivalent to at least 12.5 percent of its output.
Insisting that "we are not going to let them rob us", Adoum said the Ecuadoran government will fight any potential court action by Maxus.
"Up to now, we have paid Maxus $800 million in terms of all the infrastructure installed to extract the oil .... Up to now Maxus has extracted 50 million barrels of oil which with the sale price makes more or less $600 million," said Adoum.
"Up to now, the Ecuadoran people has not had a taste of one single liter of oil extracted by Maxus," he said. 
While local Maxus officials refused to comment, sources in the Ministry of Defense told Reuters that military personnel were already guarding Maxus's sites.
Mark Miller, executive vice-president of Maxus, said in New York that the company hopes to have something to say about its problems with the government in the next couple of days.
(Corrects to clarify that the company does not yet know when problems will be resolved).
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day. 
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
Ecuador, which left the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1992, produced 379,437 barrels of oil a day in 1995, up from 371,632 barrels a day the year before.
-- Quito Newsroom +5932 258-433William Resources Inc said Wednesday that it has acquired an interest in a high-grade deposit in Russia and Uzbekistan through its subsidiary, Rux Resources Inc.
The company said Rux has raised C$2.15 million (corrects from C$215) through a private placement to use as working capital.
Rux will acquire 50 percent of Nelkobazoloto, the Russian company which holds the right to mine the Shkolnoye high grade gold deposit in the Magadan region of Russia.
The Russian partner is contolled by Susumanzoloto, a gold producer in the Magadan region.
William Resources said the deposit contains an estimaed 340,000 ounces of minable gold reserves and could start to produce 66,000 ounces a year beginning in mid-1997.
The company said Rux has also entered into a letter of intent to buy 75 percent of Vetrenskoye Joint Co, a Russian company with the right to mine the Vetrenskoye high-grade gold deposit also in the Magadan region.
Rux will also become the owner of 49 pecent of an Uzbekistan joint venture company with precious metals deposits in Tashkent, William Resources said.
William Resources owns 70 percent of Rux.
	  -- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Inco Ltd said on Wednesday it has finally closed its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources Inc.
The closing gives Inco a leading role in the nickel market for years to come with the acquisition of the massive copper-cobalt-nickel deposit in remote Voisey's Bay, Labrador.  
Diamond Fields shareholders had the choice to take common shares in Inco, cash up to a maximum of C$350 million, preferred shares in Inco or a new class of VBN shares to participate directly in the Voisey's Bay deposit.
Inco said Wednesday the full C$350 million was paid out. The company also distributed a total of 50.3 million common shares, 25.9 million Inco class VBN shares and 9.4 million preferred shares as part of the acquisition.
The deal ends a long takeover battle and legal saga. Inco's bid beat out rival Falconbridge Ltd last spring.  
But Inco refused to sign the dotted line when, days before the scheduled closing of the deal, a group of Texans launched a lawsuit against Diamond Fields executives and Inco.
The lawsuit was settled August 5, clearing the way for the deal to go through.
But for Inco, the deal was worth fighting for. The Voisey's Bay deposit is thought to be one of the largest metals discoveries in the world.
The site contains an estimated reserve of about 150 million tonnes of ore and will give Inco a solid chunk of the nickel market when production starts up in 1998 or 1999.
Inco may still face some roadblocks before it gets to that stage, however.
The nickel giant must negotiate with local native groups and win environmental approvals before it can go ahead with production.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Amway Corp has cancelled its private network distribution agreement with Tee-Comm Electronics Inc and its subsidiary AlphaStar Television Network Inc, the satellite communications company said Wednesday.
Tee-Comm and Alphastar said they were holding talks with Amway to set up a new contract.
An AlphaStar spokeswoman said the service was put in operation but Amway cancelled it because they were unhappy with it. The official would not give details on what Amway was displeased with.
"The issues and problems raised by Amway in the past have been rectified," AlphaStar president Murray Klippenstein said in a statement.
Tee-Comm and AlphaStar signed a contract a year ago to provide Amway with hardware and a broadcasting system so Amway could communicate with its more than one million salespeople, the spokeswoman explained.
Amway was involved in the testing of the program and problems that arose during the testing have been solved, she said.
She said she would not give details since the matter was now in the hands of lawyers.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Shares in Aur Resources Inc dropped Wednesday after it released results from its gold property in Nevada.
Shares were down C$0.90 to $8.95 on heavy trading of more than one million shares.
Since June, Aur said it has tested about two percent of its Coleman Canyon property located about 100 km north of Elko, Nevada.
"Investors think they've found dead ambers," said mining analyst Ray Goldie with Richardson Greenshields.  
"They haven't, though. They've found a lot of smoke," Goldie said, adding that exploration is still in its early stages.
The company said it was drilling to evaluate the potential for a large tonnage, open pit gold deposit.
Drilling intersected an average grade of 0.02 ounces of gold per tonne over 11.6 metres, the company said in a statement.
Aur said the results confirm the presence of widespread gold mineralization in the area, but the company needs to establish the continuity of ore-grade mineralization.  
The company said it plans to continue drilling and trenching in September.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Q2 ends July 27
				1996			    1995
 Shr	 profit	C$0.12     loss	C$0.26
 Net	 profit	   529     loss	 1,186
 Revs			31,314		   31,592
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	C$0.10     loss	C$0.35
 Net	 profit	   441     loss	 1,596
 Revs			60,565		   62,112
 Avg shrs		   4,561		    4,560
		(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Previous fiscal year ended July 29, 1995. Full name is Chateau Stores of Canada Ltd.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Zenon Environmental Inc said its Hungarian division won an C$11 million contract to provide a water treatment system and a five-year service contract in Poland.
Zenon's system will treat 150 cubic meters of water an hour, it said. Zenon is a water treatment and recycling firm.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Westcoast Energy Inc said Wednesday it will restructure its pipeline and field services divisions in an effort to lower costs and improve its natural gas delivery service to customers.
The gas pipeline and processing company said the move would result in about 300 job losses, roughly one quarter of the divisions' workforce, over the next year.
Westcoast said its gas producer customers face lower than expected sales prices which are forcing cost cuts at Westcoast.  
The company has applied to the National Energy Board for a deferral account in which to record costs of the restructuring. It did not specify the amount of the costs.  The affected operations are in British Columbia and Alberta.
"We want to be positioned to be able to compete vigorously for new business. We remain confident in the future development of untapped gas reserves in northeast British Columbia but we will have to manage any growth in the context of increasingly cyclical commodity pricing," said Westcoast president Michael Phelps.
A Westcoast spokeswoman said later that the company expects no "near-term financial impact" but there will be costs associated with the restructuring. The bulk of the layoffs will occur in September but it is not yet clear what the final amount of the related costs will be, she said.
-- Reuters Vancouver Bureau (604) 664-7314C-MAC Industries said on Wednesday it has sent a letter to shareholders of Circo Craft Co Inc advising it would not amend its C$9.50 per share takeover offer for the company.
C-MAC, a make of advanced electronic components said in the letter that as Circo Craft's recent earnings did not show an increase it believed the offer was adequate.
C-MAC also said the offer represents a premium of 38 percent over Circo's market value at the time of the offer.  
Circo, a maker of circuit boards, was trading under C$7 before the bid was announced by C-MAC on August 1. After the bid, the stock jumped on hopes of a bidding war or a sweetened offer by C-MAC.
Circo was off C$0.05 at C$10.10 while C-MAC was down C$0.35 at C$6.50 in early afternoon trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday.  
Circo Craft's board of directors recommended on August 19 that shareholders reject the bid and also disclosed that several other companies had entered into confidentiality agreements to review Circo's operations.
But C-MAC said its shareholders' letter that it was "surprised" at certain statements by Circo's board when itrejected the offer, including:
- CIBC Wood Gundy Securities Inc would recieve additional compensation if a superior offer was forthcoming.
- that the company would risk the long term value of Circo Craft by opening its books to other interested parties.
C-MAC said the offer will expire, as previously announced, on August 30.
Circo earlier reported that its earnings fell to C$0.16 per share, or to C$2,438,000 in the second quarter from C$0.15 per share, or C$2,400,000 in the year ago period.
-- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Canadian Bond Rating Service said on Wednesday that it removed Inco Ltd from its credit watch list, restoring previously assigned ratings.
CBRS also said it assigned a rating of P-3 to Inco's newly issued Series E Preferred Shares. The ratings are being reinstated at B++(High) and B++ for the outstanding senior unsecured debentures and term notes and convertible debentures of Inco, respectively, it said. CBRS's review had focused on Inco financing in its C$4.3 billion acquisition of Diamond Fields Resources Inc and capital structure in respect of developing a nickel property at Voisey's Bay, Newfoundland.  
CBRS said the ratings outlook for Inco is stable. The agency said it recognizes the versatility of the financing methodology employed by Inco in the Diamond Fields acquisition, which was scheduled to close Wednesday.
The reinstatement of medium quality ratings for Inco reflects the maintenance of financial flexibility, the long life reserves position and expected continuation of favourable operating leverage for many years, CBRS said.  
The agency said there is no deterioration in the credit quality of outstanding securities at this stage and there will likely be no discernible impact on the credit quality in the intermediate term, as long as the costs of developing Voisey's Bay are held within budget and expectations on production costs and by-product credits are realized.
Proforma debt leverage is reduced to 20 percent from 34 percent at June 30, 1996 and will likely increase to 30-35 percent with the start of the project construction, but falls within the benchmarks deemed safe for the medium quality rating, CBRS said.
Inco's new Class E preferred shares are rated P-3 by CBRS, reflecting the expected stability of cash dividends payable at a rate of 5.5 percent a year for at least five years and other attractive equity-linked features, the agency said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Huntsman Corp, the nation's largest privately held chemicals company, expects to announce two acquisitions in the next 30 days, chief executive officer Jon Huntsman told Reuters in a telephone interview Wednesday.
One of the transactions, which are in the final stages of negotiations, calls for the purchase of a major polymers unit of a publicly held company, he said. The other acquisition will be a privately held packaging company.
Huntsman said both businesses to be acquired have annual sales of at least $100 million each.  
Huntsman, the patriarch of the family-owned business, declined to give other details of the anticipated acquisitions, citing confidentiality agreements.
His comments came one day after the company dropped its unsolicited $460 million bid for Rexene Corp, which had rejected the offer.
Huntsman also said he will fly to Europe on Saturday to negotiate several potential acquisitions there.
"We're in the middle of negotiations there for some very major European assets that could as much as double our European business," he said.  
The acquisitions are a key part of Huntsman's growth strategy, which calls for doubling 1995 revenues of $4.3 billion by the end of 2000. Much of that growth is expected to come from acquisitions.
The Salt Lake City-based firm dropped the bid for Rexene on Tuesday after the target rejected the offer in favor of its own internal growth plan. Huntsman had proposed buying Rexene for $15 per share and the assumption of $175 million in debt.
Huntsman said he was willing to pay $16 per share for Rexene, but Rexene adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated that offer also would be refused.  
"We have several other major acquisitions going right now and I just didn't feel it was worth the time and interest to try to negotiate with someone who had no interest in really working out a fair and equitable deal for shareholders," he said.
In rejecting the Huntsman offer, Rexene said its internal growth plan would serve the best interest of shareholders.
Huntsman also said he had considered launching a tender offer for Rexene, but "it's a very small industry, in the sense of the numbers of players, and it's not particularly an industry that we would want to be disruptive, or cause any type of turmoil, in."  
Some takeover traders had expected Huntsman would launch a tender offer for Rexene even though the company has never pursued a hostile takeover.
Although the failure to win Rexene marked the second time in recent months that Huntsman did not win its target, the company's top executive said its acquisition course will not change. In April, Huntsman's bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc was rejected in favor of a management buyout.
"These things don't mean a thing to us....they're not even a blip on the scope," he said.
Huntsman has long been known for its history of successful acquisitions, including the 1994 purchase of Texaco Inc's chemicals business.
The 59-year-old patriarch spoke from his hotel room in San Diego, where eight of his nine children had gathered for an annual retreat that combines the family business with family vacation.Sheldahl Inc said Wednesday it signed a memoradum of intent with Shinko Electric Co Ltd of Nagano, Japan.
The memorandum provides the framework for an extended partnership, details of which are being jointly developed, Sheldahl added.
Sheldahl said the agreement will outline increased cooperation between it and Shinko to produce Novaclad-based substrate materials.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Life USA Holding Inc said Wednesday it completed the acquisition of Tax Planning Seminars, a national life and annuity marketing organization based in Vorhees, N.J.
Tax Planning Seminars is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of LifeUSA Marketing Inc, which was formed by Life USA Holding to manage acquired marketing organizations.
Terms of the agreement between Tax Planning Seminars and Life USA were not disclosed. But Life USA said the purchase will consist of a combination of cash and stock, paid over a five year period.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.165		    $0.165
 Pay		    Oct 15
 Record		  Oct 1
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Express Scripts Inc said Wednesday it created a new subsidiary, Express Scripts Vision Corp.
The new subsidiary will be led by newly appointed president Larry Zarin, a consultant for Express Scripts over the last 18 months.
Express Scripts said the new vision care subsidiary comes on the heels of new alliances with Ciba Vision Ophthalmics and The Eye Health Network.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.01		    $0.02
 Net			    147			445
 Revs			 2,808		    3,296
		     NINE MONTHS
 Shr			  $0.01		    $0.02
 Net			    303			538
 Revs			 8,411		    7,517
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Hit by a government probe and with its share price near a three-year low, United American Healthcare Corp said its troubled Tennessee operations were profitable and could grow if state regulators would cooperate.
"Things are operating in an absolutely 100 percent normal manner (in Tennessee) and adding significantly to the bottom line," said chief executive Dr. Julius Combs in an interview with Reuters last week.  
"The only thing we're hoping to be able to project soon will be commercial enrollment. We think there's a significant market that is available in Tennessee," Combs said.
Detroit-based United American, which went public in 1991, has an unusual specialty in Medicaid markets. It manages four healthcare plans with 235,000 enrollees. Three years ago, Forbes magazine named it one of the best small U.S. companies.
It remains one of few African-American controlled companies on the New York Stock Exchange.
However, United American has problems going deeper than a broad slump in healthcare stocks, analysts said.  
State and federal authorities last year launched an investigation of marketing practices by United American affiliates in Tennessee that led to two fraud convictions.
A Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokesman declined to comment on whether that investigation was continuing.
Combs said he did not know the probe's status, either.
The company lost $0.13 per share in the third quarter ended March 31 on revenue of $27.7 million, compared with a $0.33 per share profit on revenue of $17.7 million in the year-earlier quarter.  
The company is comfortable with analysts' forecasts of fiscal 1996 results ranging from a $0.04 per share loss to a $0.07 per share profit, Combs said.
In fiscal 1995, United American posted a profit of $1.01 per share on revenue of $68.5 million.
The third-quarter 1996 loss reflected losses by affiliates, a decrease in Tennessee HMO enrollments and "the costs of defending the company in ongoing litigation," it said.  
United American continues to fight two lawsuits filed late last year by shareholders alleging false and misleading statements. Combs said legal costs have been "substantial."
United American's core business, with 45 percent of its revenue, is a Detroit-area HMO. Smaller businesses are located in Cleveland, New York City and Maryland.
About 23 percent of revenue comes from managing Omnicare-TN, a Tennessee preferred provider organization that holds the company's biggest promise and its biggest problems, analysts said.  
Combs said state regulators reviewed the company's books last month but put no timetable on the months-old HMO license review process.
United American president Ronald Dobbins said, "All of our discussions with them have indicated that there is no reason why the license will not be approved."
--Chicago newsroom, 312 408-87871996			1995
 Shr	 loss	   $0.26   profit	 $0.02
 Net	 loss	   1,073   profit	    70
 Revs			 8,216		    7,924
 Avg shrs			NA			 NA
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 loss	   $0.21   profit	 $0.08
 Net	 loss	     859   profit	   303
 Revs			17,102		   16,135
 Avg shrs			NA			 NA
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: 1996 results include $768,389 in direct expense associated with failed attempt to acquire Papa Gino's, a 180-unit regional pizza chain. In June, Noble Roman's said it called off the acquisition that had become subject to numerous delays and uncertainties.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Spartech Corp said Wednesday its current backlog stands at a record level of more than $34.0 million, up 12 percent from a year ago.
Based on the backlog, Spartech, which makes thermoplastic materials and polymeric compounds, said it remains cautiously optimistic about the fiscal fourth quarter.
Earlier, Spartech reported earnings for the third quarter ended August 3 of $0.20 a share, up from $0.16 a year ago. For the first nine months of the year, it earned $0.55 a share, up from $0.45 a year ago.  
"Spartech Plastics, our extruded sheet and rollstock unit, continues to produce excellent results," Bradley Buechler, president, said in a statement. "Third quarter 1996 sales generated by this 11-plant group rose approximately 16 percent as compared to 1995, with solid gains also being recorded in operating earnings."
He added that sales within the merchant compounding group declined modestly during the quarter. Spartech Vy-Cal plastics, a calendered PVC film operation, recorded a strong gain in operating earnings as a result of excellent volume and more stability in the price of raw materials, Buechler said.
The company said the acquisition of the Hamelin Group remains on track, with closing expected on or about September 30. The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings almost immediately, David Mueller, chief operating officer, said in a statement.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Standard Management Corp said Wednesday it signed an agreement with Sands Brothers & Co Ltd of New York to provide financial services and advice.
Standard Management said Sands will provide advisory services related to merger and acquisition activity, financial management and financing strategies.
The company said it has grown to over $490 million in assets as of June 30 from $198 million in assets when it went public in February, 1993.
Standard Management has operations in the United States and Europe. Its stated growth strategy is through the sale and distribution of life insurance related products and through the acquisition of other companies and blocks of business.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Argosy Gaming Co said Wednesday that the Indiana Gaming Commisson extended for 180 days its certificate of suitability for Argosy's Lawrenceburg, Ind. joint venture project.
The certificate was extended effective August 20.
In July, Argosy said its Indiana license was challenged.  
Argosy said construction of temporary Lawrenceburg facilities is on schedule for completion this November. The company said it anticipates opening its facilities once the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers issues a permit for a permanent site and the Indiana Gaming Commission issues a final gaming license.
The Indiana Gaming Commission confirmed that it extended Argosy's certificate for Lawrenceburg.
The commission also said it rejected an application by Shilling Casino Corp, doing business as Empire Casino & Resort, that had sought to revoke Argosy's certificate.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Below are the current average ex-UK GBP air cargo market rates per kg for a 100 kg shipment, with a volume-to-weight ratio of six-to-one:
						  Aug 21    vs	Aug 7
		   UNITED STATES
LON-JFK					  O.62		 0.63
LON-LAX					  0.70		 0.71
LON-CHI					  0.69		 0.69
		   ASIA-PACIFIC
LON-HKG					  1.20		 1.19
LON-SIN					  1.23		 1.23
LON-NRT					  1.92		 1.91
LON-SEL					  1.80		 1.78
LON-SYD					  2.05		 2.05
		   MIDDLE EAST
LON-DXB					  O.70		 0.70
LON-BAH					  O.85		 0.86
			  AFRICA
LON-JNB					  1.71		 1.70
		   SCANDINAVIA
LON-STO					  0.7O		 0.70
LON-CPH					  0.65		 0.65
		   LATIN AMERICA
LON-SAO					  2.04		 2.02
*The rates quoted in this report were obtained by Reuters journalists on confidential basis from a range of airlines, large forwarders and smaller air cargo agents based at the three main London airports.
*All prices quoted in sterling.
*The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and are indicative or current market activity.British Gas shares climbed three percent on Wednesday after industry watchdog Ofgas softened its stance in a crucial review of the utility's pipeline operating unit TransCo.
But while investors welcomed the new proposals, British Gas said it had hoped for bigger concessions and added it would try to wring further compromises out of regulator Clair Spottiswoode before deciding whether to accept Ofgas' review.
The watchdog said it wanted TransCo, which is British Gas's biggest earner, to slice 20 percent off its charges in the year from April 1997. It had initially proposed a 20 to 28 percent price cut in May.
But Ofgas's main concession was in the price cuts for the four years to 2001, saying that charges should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed three months ago.
The final proposals would lead to a cut in the average British household gas bill of almost 30 pounds ($45) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
Shares in British Gas gained 6-1/2 pence to close at 204-1/2 on the milder proposals.
They had collapsed in May, losing 25 percent of their value in the two weeks after Spottiswoode relaesed her harsh initial proposals.
Though she has now made some concessions, the final review is still tough overall and will probably lead to a big dividend cut next year, analysts said.
British Gas stuck to its earlier prediction that lower charges by TransCo to gas suppliers will mean that up to half of the unit's 20,000 jobs will go.
The utility said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
But Spottiswoode said her proposals were final and added that only details were negotiable.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the Mergers and Monopolies Commission," she told Reuters.
The MMC Britain's senior competition authority.
Spottiswoode said her compromises followed new investment data supplied by British Gas in the last couple of months.
Another reason for a more relaxed regime was that Ofgas wanted to prevent accusations that it aimed to mend any false generosity in the past by being extra harsh now.
"We actually got a very good compromise for both shareholders and customers," Spottiswoode told a news conference.
But Ofgas has to refer the matter to the MMC if British Gas rejects the latest proposals.
Most investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
But some analysts said British Gas has little to lose if the TransCo review is vetted by the MMC.
"I advise them to reject. It is worth a try," said Daniel Martin, analyst at brokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.Lloyd's of London members agency LRG Cater Allen has updated its preliminary recommendations for each underwriting syndicate on which it has a participation for 1996.
LRG said in a statement that it will comment on all syndicates trading for 1997 when it issues its full Syndicate Commentaries Book later this month.
SyndRecommendation		 Synd Recommendation	  Synd
Recommend.
 2  Sell			     554  Hold			1007
Hold
 33 Buy				557  Hold			1027
Sell
 37 Buy				566  Hold			1028
Buy
 40 Umbrella Syndicate	   570  Hold			1036
Sell
 44 Sell			     575  Sell			1047
Hold
 45 Hold			     587  Buy			 1069
Hold
 47 Hold			     590  Hold			1084
Hold
 48 Sell			     603  Umbrella Syndicate    1121
Hold
 51 Hold			     609  Hold			1141
Buy
 52 Buy				623  Hold			1156
Buy
 55 Hold			     625  Hold			1173
Hold
 62 Hold			     657  Hold pending review   1176
Hold
 79 Hold			     672  Buy			 1183
Hold
102 Buy				702  Sell			1206
Sell
112 Hold			     724  Sell			1212
Sell
123 Umbrella Syndicate	   727  Hold pending review   1215
Buy
138 Hold			     732  Buy			 1221
Sell
183 Buy				734  Buy			 1234
Hold
204 Hold			     735  Hold			2001
Hold
205 Buy				741  Sell
218 Buy				779  Buy
219 Hold			     780  Hold
227 Sell			     800  Sell
260 Sell			     807  Hold
271 Hold			     824  Umbrella Syndicate
308 Hold			     839  Hold pending further review
314 Sell			     861  Sell
318 Hold			     866  Buy
322 Hold			     877  Hold
332 Sell - Merging with 1171   887  Umbrella Syndicate
340 Hold			     892  Sell
362 Umbrella Syndicate	   925  Buy
375 Hold			     947  Sell
376 Hold			     955  Umbrella Syndicate
382 Hold			     957  Sell
386 Buy				958  Buy
435 Hold			     959  Hold
439 Sell			     960  Hold
457 Hold			     962  Sell
483 Hold			     963  Buy
484 Hold			     979  Sell - Syndicate ceasing
488 Sell			     982  Hold pending further review
500 Buy				990  Buy
510 Umbrella Syndicate	   991  Hold
529 Sell			     994  Hold
544 Sell			     998  Hold
545 Syndicate Merging	    1003 Hold
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769Lloyd's of London members agency LRG Cater Allen has updated its preliminary recommendations for each underwriting syndicate on which it has a participation for 1996.
LRG said in a statement that it will comment on all syndicates trading for 1997 when it issues its full Syndicate Commentaries Book later this month.
Synd Recommendation		Synd Recommendation	  Synd
Recommend.
 2  Sell			     554  Hold			1007
Hold
 33 Buy				557  Hold			1027
Sell
 37 Buy				566  Hold			1028
Buy
 40 Umbrella Syndicate	   570  Hold			1036
Sell
 44 Sell			     575  Sell			1047
Hold
 45 Hold			     587  Buy			 1069
Hold
 47 Hold			     590  Hold			1084
Hold
 48 Sell			     603  Umbrella Syndicate    1121
Hold
 51 Hold			     609  Hold			1141
Buy
 52 Buy				623  Hold			1156
Buy
 55 Hold			     625  Hold			1173
Hold
 62 Hold			     657  Hold pending review   1176
Hold
 79 Hold			     672  Buy			 1183
Hold
102 Buy				702  Sell			1206
Sell
112 Hold			     724  Sell			1212
Sell
123 Umbrella Syndicate	   727  Hold pending review   1215
Buy
138 Hold			     732  Buy			 1221
Sell
183 Buy				734  Buy			 1234
Hold
204 Hold			     735  Hold			2001
Hold
205 Buy				741  Sell
218 Buy				779  Buy
219 Hold			     780  Hold
227 Sell			     800  Sell
260 Sell			     807  Hold
271 Hold			     824  Umbrella Syndicate
308 Hold			     839  Hold pending further review
314 Sell			     861  Sell
318 Hold			     866  Buy
322 Hold			     877  Hold
332 Sell - Merging with 1171   887  Umbrella Syndicate
340 Hold			     892  Sell
362 Umbrella Syndicate	   925  Buy
375 Hold			     947  Sell
376 Hold			     955  Umbrella Syndicate
382 Hold			     957  Sell
386 Buy				958  Buy
435 Hold			     959  Hold
439 Sell			     960  Hold
457 Hold			     962  Sell
483 Hold			     963  Buy
484 Hold			     979  Sell - Syndicate ceasing
488 Sell			     982  Hold pending further review
500 Buy				990  Buy
510 Umbrella Syndicate	   991  Hold
529 Sell			     994  Hold
544 Sell			     998  Hold
545 Syndicate Merging	    1003 Hold
-- Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769MacMillan Bloedel Ltd said on Wednesday that Richard Haskayne has been named chairman effective October 1.
Calgary, Alberta-born Haskayne has been on the MacMillan Bloedel board since 1994. He succeeds Ray Smith who announced his retirement last month. Haskayne is a past chairman and chief executive of Interhome Energy Inc, the parent of Interprovincial Pipe Line and Home Oil.
"I...want to state clearly that I have great confidence in CEO Bob Findlay and his management team," Haskayne said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Shares in Inco Ltd were up in heavy trading Wednesday morning on confirmation of a share buy-back and pending closure of its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields Resources.
"Everything is going ahead," said mining analyst Doug Leishman at Yorkton Securities in Vancouver.
"They've got Voisey's Bay, and Inco's going to be a big company for a long, long time."
The stock rose C$0.75 to C$45.10 on the Toronto Stock Exchange in trading of 1.3 million shares. In New York, Inco's shares were up 5/8 to 32-7/8 in trading of 902,000 shares.  
"It's active because of the announcement that they're buying their stock back," said Joe Ismail at Maison Placements Canada Inc.
"People are taking opportunities because they know they can get a fixed price at this level here."
Inco said on Tuesday it would buy back 10 percent of its shares over the next year to offset earnings dilution stemming from its acquisition of Diamond Fields and its massive nickel-copper-cobalt deposit in Voisey's Bay, Labrador.  
The takeover is expected to close formally at 1600 EDT/2000 GMT on Wednesday barring any unforeseen problems, an Inco spokesman said.
The closing prompted Canadian Bond Rating Service to remove Inco from its credit watch list. Moody's said Wednesday it affirmed Inco's Baa2 senior debt rating.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Class B shares of Bombardier Inc rose 20 cents to reach 19.35 in brisk trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning after it forecast 30 to 35 orders for its Regional Jet in its third quarter.
On Tuesday evening, a Bombardier spokesman told Reuters that Bombardier is confident it will get the firm orders.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," spokesman Michel Lord said in an interview.  
Analysts said Wednesday that the rally in Bombardier's Class B shares was related to Beaudoin's forecast, which was an unusual statement because Bombardier is traditionally loathe to make such specific forecasts.
"That was the most exciting piece of news that they gave us yesterday. This company doesn't say things like that unless it feels very comfortable in saying it," said analyst Jon Reider, of Richardson Greenshields.
"There is no question that any movement in the stock today I think is based on that," he said.
Bombardier's stock has rallied over the last 11 trading days, recovering ground lost earlier on concerns that it had not announced new orders for the Regional Jet.
"The one thing that had led to weakness or concern in the stock price was the fact that there was a weak order book developing for the Regional Jet," said Reider.
That would almost double the current order backlog of 40 for the 50-seat jet. Montreal-based Bombardier is producing the plane at a rate of five each month.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by Chief Executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended Oct. 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production output to Jan. 31, 1998.  Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Sierra Leone has joined a regional scheme using aerial monitoring to help protect West African national fisheries from poaching by foreign vessels, a fisheries official said on Wednesday.
Naib Iscandri, deputy director fisheries at the marine resources ministry, told Reuters that the first flight across Sierra Leone's territorial waters took place on Tuesday.
The scheme, organised by a sub-regional commission on fisheries and funded by Luxembourg, groups Cape Verde, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania and Senegal, and now Sierra Leone.
"Sierra Leone is not a member of the sub-regional commission on fisheries but it is a member of the regional project for aerial monitoring of fishing zones," Iscandri said.
Fishing plays an important role in the economic life of coastal communities in West African states bordering the Atlantic Ocean and a major role in several national economies. Russian and Spanish fishermen have been accused of poaching.
Cape Verde, Mauritania and Senegal have each provided the commission with one plane for the job of monitoring.
"The use of planes for surveillance of the country's territorial waters will greatly reduce poaching which has almost crippled the country's fishing industry," Iscandi said.Half yr ended June 30
		(million rand unless stated)
    Shr (cts)		    271.2    vs 175.9
    Div (cts)		    140.0    vs 116.0
    Net attrib surplus	 667.0    vs 422.5
Div payable October 9
On register September 6
Full name: Liberty Life Association of Africa Ltd
NOTE - The company said shareholders would be offered capitalisation shares in lieu of the cash dividend.
Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast the net surplus per share at a consensus 252.7 cents with the range 240.0-268.0. The dividend was forecast at 145.7 cents with the range 145.0-148.0. -- Johannesburg newsroom +27 11 482 1003Albania's national carrier Albanian Airlines will freeze its operations before the end of September because its hub airport will be undergoing renovation, a senior company official said on Wednesday.
"We are freezing the operations because the government will start the reconstruction of Tirana's Rinasi Airport runway," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters.
"Unfortunately there is only one runway at Rinasi and our company suffers most from the construction. We cannot work during the building process," he said.
The company's 150 employees would be on leave without pay during the "freeze", but the official guaranteed they would be able to return to their jobs when the airline resumed operations. He could not say when the work would be completed.
He repeated the company's denial of a newspaper report on Tuesday which claimed the airline was suspending flights because it was facing bankruptcy.
He said the airline planned to restart service after the renovation was completed, adding the company's board had convened this week to discuss "how to restart operations after the reconstruction".
Albanian Airlines was founded in 1992 as a joint venture between the state tourism agency Albtransport and Austria's Tyrolean Airways. Both companies owned a 50 percent stake in the airline.
Albanian Airlines was subsequently bought for $2 million in 1995 by the Kuwaiti Al Kharafi Group, which paid off all the company's previous debts. Al Kharifi currently owns 95 percent of the company, while the Albanian government retains a five percent stake.
Albanian Airlines makes 12 flights a week to Munich, Bologna, Rome and Istanbul.Russia's AO Aviastar aircraft manufacturer has suspended production because its power supplies have been cut off as the company has not payed its electricity bills, a company source said on Wednesday.
"All staff (about 28,000 workers) have been sent on holiday until September," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters by telephone from the central Russian city of Ulyanovsk.
Interfax news agency said Aviastar's debts for electricity were 130 billion roubles, and management planned to cut staff numbers next month.
There was no official comment from the company.
The shut-down at Aviastar, which manufactures both cargo and passenger planes, follows agreement earlier this month to set up a Taiwan subsidiary, Aviastar Asia Corp, to market and service Tupolev Tu-204 jets in South-East Asia.
Aviastar commercial director Nikolai Kachalov said Aviastar had invested $250,000 in the new company out of its total capital of $10 million.
Japanese companies Tomen Corporation and Yamaichi Securities Company Ltd were also involved in the project as well as several Taiwan firms.
Kachalov said Aviastar currently had 680 options for Tu-204 passenger and cargo aircraft from companies in Britain, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Poland, Iran and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
--Viktor Anoshkin, Moscow newsroom, +7095 941 8520Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently stand at 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of rail wagons had hampered the ministry's attempts to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (the Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said. Some 790,000 tonnes of lignite had already mined and were ready for shipment.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather arrived earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes in summer and up to 140,000 in winter.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to raise output and consume more coal than normal, he added.
"So far, Renel received approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data show Romania has mined 23 million tonnes of lignite and 3.47 million tonnes of hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romanian coal production fell sharply after the end of communist rule in December 1989. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines and the rest is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264Negotiations are reaching their final stage in the sale of up to 75 percent in Polish food retail and wholesale chain  Polski Handel Spozywczy SA (PHS), a Privatisation Ministry spokesman said.
"Negotiations are reaching their final stage," Jerzy Godula told Reuters.
Financial daily Parkiet reported on Wednesday that three bidders out of an original 30 remained in the negotiations -- wholesaler PLI, the Elektromis-Poznanska Szkola Handlu trade school and a consortium of food producers.
Parkiet said PHS, with about 650 wholesale and retail outlets across Poland and more than 6,000 employees, had 549.7 million zlotys in retail turnover last year and 203.3 million in wholesale turnover.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Cargo imports at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased in the January-to-May period by 18.5 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO IMPORTS (in tonnes)		1996     1995  PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE			    8,815.5  7,439.4	 +18.5
 --chartered flights			65.7    159.0	 -58.7
 --scheduled flights domestic	   93.5    101.7	  -8.1
 --scheduled flights international 7,042.5  6,218.6	 +13.2
 --trucks				  1,613.8    960.1	 +68.1
 MAY					 1,966.9  1,576.1	 +24.8
 --chartered flights			37.3    110.2	 -66.2
 --scheduled flights domestic	   20.6     18.7	 +10.2
 --scheduled flights international 1,544.1  1,238.3	 +24.7
 --trucks				    364.9    208.9	 +74.7
 APRIL				     1,826.1  1,507.2	 +21.2
 --chartered flights			 9.2	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	   17.9     20.1	 -10.9
 --scheduled flights international 1,452.6  1,285.6	 +13.0
 --trucks				    346.4    201.5	 +71.9
 MARCH				     1,864.6  1,673.6	 +11.4
 --chartered flights			 1.2	0.7	 +71.4
 --scheduled flights domestic	   23.2     20.8	 +11.5
 --scheduled flights international 1,513.8  1,426.4	  +6.1
 --trucks				    326.4    225.7	 +44.6
 FEBRUARY				  1,555.1  1,283.3	 +21.2
 --chartered flights			 0.4     24.2	 -98.3
 --scheduled flights domestic	   16.3     19.3	 -15.5
 --scheduled flights international 1,293.0  1,116.6	 +15.8
 --trucks				    245.4    123.2	 +99.2
 JANUARY				   1,602.8  1,399.2	 +14.6
 --chartered flights			17.6     23.9	 -26.4
 --scheduled flights domestic	   15.5     22.8	 -32.0
 --scheduled flights international 1,239.0  1,151.7	  +7.6
 --trucks				    330.7    200.8	 +64.7
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Cargo trade at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased 21.3 percent in May 1996 from May 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO TRADE (in tonnes)		 MAY 96   MAY 95 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL TRADE				3,015.5  2,486.3	+21.3
 --chartered flights			 43.5    110.2	-60.5
 --scheduled flights domestic	   282.4    258.0	 +9.5
 --scheduled flights international  2,198.4  1,829.4	+20.2
 --trucks				     491.2    288.7	+70.1
 TOTAL EXPORTS			    1,048.6    910.2	+15.2
 --chartered flights			  6.2	0.0	    -
 --scheduled flights domestic	   261.8    239.3	 +9.4
 --scheduled flights international    654.3    591.1	+10.7
 --trucks				     126.3     79.8	+58.3
 TOTAL IMPORTS			    1,966.9  1,576.1	+24.8
 --chartered flights			 37.3    110.2	-66.2
 --scheduled flights domestic	    20.6     18.7	+10.2
 --scheduled flights international  1,544.1  1,238.3	+24.7
 --trucks				     364.9    208.9	+74.7
 TRADE BALANCE			     -918.3   -665.9	    -
 --chartered flights			-31.1   -110.2	    -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  +241.2   +220.6	    -
 --scheduled flights international   -889.8   -647.2	    -
 --trucks				    -238.6   -129.1	    -
--------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In the trade balance, positive numbers indicate export surpluses; negative numbers indicate export deficits. Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Cargo exports at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw increased in the January-to-May period by 14.2 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the airport's cargo handling agent, LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, owned 51 percent by Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO EXPORTS (in tonnes)		1996     1995  PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE			    5,125.5  4,489.0	 +14.2
 --chartered flights		     146.7     43.2	+239.6
 --scheduled flights domestic	1,276.7  1,118.0	 +14.2
 --scheduled flights international 3,091.9  2,885.5	  +7.2
 --trucks				    610.2    442.3	 +38.0
 MAY					 1,048.6    910.2	 +15.2
 --chartered flights			 6.2	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  261.8    239.3	  +9.4
 --scheduled flights international   654.3    591.1	 +10.7
 --trucks				    126.3     79.8	 +58.3
 APRIL				     1,081.4    871.9	 +24.0
 --chartered flights			23.3	0.1   +23,200.0
 --scheduled flights domestic	  263.0    205.1	 +28.2
 --scheduled flights international   653.0    571.4	 +14.3
 --trucks				    142.1     95.3	 +49.1
 MARCH				     1,124.3    969.8	 +15.9
 --chartered flights			56.1	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  262.1    232.6	 +12.7
 --scheduled flights international   672.5    635.1	  +5.9
 --trucks				    133.6    102.1	 +30.9
 FEBRUARY				    943.3    879.2	  +7.3
 --chartered flights			 1.0     43.1	 -97.7
 --scheduled flights domestic	  246.9    209.2	 +18.0
 --scheduled flights international   590.7    545.4	  +8.3
 --trucks				    104.7     81.5	 +28.5
 JANUARY				     927.9    857.9	  +8.2
 --chartered flights			60.1	0.0	     -
 --scheduled flights domestic	  242.9    231.8	  +4.8
 --scheduled flights international   521.4    542.5	  -3.9
 --trucks				    103.5     83.6	 +23.8
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo trade by 22.7 percent in May 1996 from May 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data was supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO TRADE (in tonnes)     MAY 1996    MAY 1995    PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 TOTAL TRADE			1,385.7     1,129.5	   +22.7
 --chartered flights		  4.1	   0.8	  +412.5
 --scheduled flights	    1,297.0     1,064.9	   +21.8
 --trucks				84.6	  63.8	   +32.6
 TOTAL EXPORTS			488.8	 434.2	   +12.6
 --chartered flights		  0.0	   0.8	  -100.0
 --scheduled flights		405.2	 369.6	    +9.6
 --trucks				83.6	  63.8	   +31.0
 TOTAL IMPORTS			896.9	 695.3	   +29.0
 --chartered flights		  4.1	   0.0		 -
 --scheduled flights		891.8	 695.3	   +28.3
 --trucks				 1.0	   0.0		 -
 TRADE BALANCE		     -408.1	-261.1		 -
 --chartered flights		 -4.1	  +0.8		 -
 --scheduled flights	     -486.6	-325.7		 -
 --trucks			     +82.6	 +63.8		 -
--------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In the trade balance, positive numbers indicate export surpluses; negative numbers indicate export deficits.
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its aircraft fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo imports in the January-to-May period by 17.8 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO IMPORTS (in tonnes)    1996	  1995	 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE		  3,935.5     3,341.4		+17.8
 --chartered flights	    40.8	  65.6		-37.8
 --scheduled flights	 3,887.7     3,268.9		+18.9
 --trucks			    7.0	   6.9		 +1.4
 MAY				 896.9	 695.3		+29.0
 --chartered flights	     4.1	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   891.8	 695.3		+28.3
 --trucks			    1.0	   0.0		    -
 APRIL			     835.9	 718.7		+16.3
 --chartered flights	    23.8	  28.4		-16.2
 --scheduled flights	   809.8	 690.3		+17.3
 --trucks			    2.3	   0.0		    -
 MARCH			     853.9	 791.9		 +7.8
 --chartered flights	    12.7	  36.5		-65.2
 --scheduled flights	   837.5	 752.1		+11.4
 --trucks			    3.7	   3.3		+12.1
 FEBRUARY			  704.8	 540.5		+30.4
 --chartered flights	     0.0	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   704.8	 536.9		+31.3
 --trucks			    0.0	   3.6	     -100.0
 JANUARY			   644.0	 595.0		 +8.2
 --chartered flights	     0.2	   0.7		-71.4
 --scheduled flights	   643.8	 594.3		 +8.3
 --trucks			    0.0	   0.0		    -
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its airplane fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Polish state-owned airline Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA increased its cargo exports in the January-to-May period by 8.3 percent in 1996 from 1995, according to data provided to Reuters.
Data were supplied by the cargo handling agent at Okecie International Airport in Warsaw,  LOT Ground Services Sp z oo, which is owned 51 percent by LOT and 49 percent by the  Polish Airports State Enterprise (PPL).
 CARGO EXPORTS (in tonnes)    1996	  1995	 PCT CHANGE
--------------------------------------------------------------
 YEAR TO DATE		  2,266.3     2,092.1		 +8.3
 --chartered flights	     4.9	  12.4		-60.5
 --scheduled flights	 1,896.7     1,745.9		 +8.6
 --trucks			  364.7	 333.8		 +9.3
 MAY				 488.8	 434.2		+12.6
 --chartered flights	     0.0	   0.8	     -100.0
 --scheduled flights	   405.2	 369.6		 +9.6
 --trucks			   83.6	  63.8		+31.0
 APRIL			     497.0	 426.1		+16.6
 --chartered flights	     1.9	  11.6		-83.6
 --scheduled flights	   405.2	 342.4		+18.3
 --trucks			   89.9	  72.1		+24.7
 MARCH			     478.8	 472.5		 +1.3
 --chartered flights	     1.9	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   408.5	 395.8		 +3.2
 --trucks			   68.4	  76.7		-10.8
 FEBRUARY			  434.3	 371.6		+16.9
 --chartered flights	     0.9	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   361.7	 309.5		+16.9
 --trucks			   71.7	  62.1		+15.5
 JANUARY			   367.4	 387.7		 -5.2
 --chartered flights	     0.2	   0.0		    -
 --scheduled flights	   316.1	 328.6		 -3.8
 --trucks			   51.1	  59.1		-13.5
--------------------------------------------------------------
Chartered flights include supplemental scheduled flights.
LOT is owned completely by Poland's State Treasury.
Its airplane fleet includes eight Aerospatiale ATR-72s and 15 Boeings (six B737-400s, five B737-500s, two B767-200ERs and two B767-300ERs). LOT expects to receive two B737-400s and one B767-300ER in 1997 and two B737-800s in 1998.
-- Ryan Tutak, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Kazakhstan's goverment has decided to shut down state-owned Kazakhstan National Airways (KazAir) and establish a new national carrier, KazAir vice-president Ildus Nazmutdinov said on Wednesday.
KazAir emerged from the former Soviet airline Aeroflot and provided regular domestic and international flights. It also ran a network of 21 airports.
It was managed by privately owned Kazkommertsbank after it ran into financial problems earlier this year.
A new airline must be registered with all international aviation organisations, Nazmutdinov told Reuters, adding that non-profitable divisions would be excluded from the new airline's structure.
He declined to give KazAir's sales volumes or say how many aircraft it was operating. It would be take about six months to get full information about its financial situation, he said.
U.S. publication Airline Financial News said in July that KazAir was flying five Antonovs, an Ilyushin, four Tupolevs and a Yakovlev 42. Its one Boeing 747 was used for VIP purposes. Six 737s had been ordered but not delivered, it said.
Ruslan Zusangaliyev, KazAir's debt manager, said the goverment wanted to write off around $58 million owed by the airline.
--Almaty Newsroom, (3272) 509410Argentina's oil firm YPF SA said on Wednesday the operations of its Maxus Energy Corp subsidiary in Ecuador, which the Quito government has banned, account for only one percent of its sales.
"The income from this operation represents approximately one percent of the consolidated sales of YPF SA and its results are not significant," the company said in a statement.
Ecuador's government announced late on Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
But YPF president Nells Leon told Reuters that Maxus was still operating normally on Wednesday. He said negotiations to reach a new agreement were under way with Petroecuador.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655The approval of a feasibility study for a "dry canal" across Nicaragua to complement the Panama Canal has been delayed to August 27, a company official said on Wednesday.
"We came here to sign it on August 15, but the Nicaraguan government had some more paperwork to do, so their approval of the study has been delayed to August 27," Don Bosco, president of the Canal Interoceanico de Nicaragua S.A. (CINN), told Reuters. Despite the postponement, there is an understanding the government will approve the study, project coordinator John Sobke said.  
Sobke said the possibility of the dry canal becoming a reality was "as real as you can get."
"With the problems the canal options in other countries have had, we're the only game in town," Sobke said.
The proposed dry canal is a 236 mile (377 km) rail system to transport container cargo across the Central American isthmus.
The $1.4 billion project, the largest in Nicaraguan history, will include two new container ports and surrounding free-trade zones and will meet the demands of the expanding container shipping market, CINN general manager Juan Carlos Rivas said.
The feasibility study is expected to take one year and construction three to four years. Crossing Central America on the dry canal will take three hours and will be cheaper than crossing the Panama Canal, Rivas said.
The project is expected to create 20,000 direct jobs and 70,000 spin-off jobs in Nicaragua, one of the poorest countries in Latin America.Argentina will select a financial consultant to advise the government on the privatization of the country's 57 airports on August 26, a top official said on Wednesday.
Kleinwort Benson, Salomon Brothers, UBS and Coopers and Lybrand were chosen in the pre-qualifying bids for the consultancy contract, Miguel Velarde, adviser to the official in charge of the airports sale, told Reuters.
"The winner of the contract will advise on the form of the privatization," said Velarde.
One of the main issues the consultancy will advise on is whether or not the 57 airports will be sold in one batch or whether there will be more than one concessions, for instance splitting Buenos Aires' main international and main domestic airports in two.
President Carlos Menem has stated he wants the concessions for the airports to be sold by January. The investment necessary to bring the airports up to scratch would be about $1.65 billion. The concessions will last for 25 years.
-- Axel Bugge, Buenos Aires Newsroom, 54 1 318 0668The oil installations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp  in Ecuador are operating normally and have not been occupied by the army, Nells Leon, president of Maxus' owner, YPF SA, said Wednesday.
But Nells Leon told Reuters that talks to end a ban on Maxus' operations announced by the Ecuadoran government may "not be short".  
"Our area in Ecuador is producing normally and has not been taken by the army," Leon said, denying reports that the armed forces had occupied the company's block number 16.
With respect to declarations in the United States by Maxus' executive Vice-President Mark Miller that the company's difficulties with the government should be cleared up in two days, Leon said: "In the next two days we are going to set the framework under which the terms of the negotiation will be carried out."
He said it was difficult to say how long the negotiation would take: "I can't say .... I expect it will not be short."  
Nells Leon said: "We have a contract signed by the authorities under Ecuadoran law .... If the government proposes a change we will study it."
Asked whether he felt the government in Quito was changing the rules under which the company was operating in Ecuador, Nells Leon said: "I did not say that they are changing the rules."
He said "The government has asked for the contract to be renegotiated .... so that is what our regional manager in Quito is doing together with our partner from Petroecuador."
Ecuador's government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day.
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655After three failed attempts, receivers of Venezuela's bankrupt Aeropostal will take the airline company to the auction block for a fourth time on August 30.
"If none of the other creditors have any objections, the auction will be Friday next week," Servio Altuve, one of the airline's receivers, told a meeting of the board of creditors.  
A base price is yet to be set, but sources told Reuters it would be around $24 million, down from the last auction's $32 million base price.
Five groups of investors expressed interest in the airline during the creditors' meeting: England's World Aviation Group, the Venezuelan-U.S. consortium Alas; a consortium of former Aeropostal pilots and Delta Airlines executives; Venezuela's Zuliana de Aviacion; and the Venezuelan consortium Cavendes- Laser.
The airline's first auction attempt failed in July 1994 when the Venezuelan Investment Fund delcared void an an 80 percent public offering valued at $62 million.
The airline was decalred bankrupt and closed in September 1994.
-- Ana Isabel Martinez, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405The captain of the port of Coatzacoalcos confirmed Wednesday that the crude export port of Pajaritos, which comes under his juridiction, has been closed to all shipping.
"The port of Pajaritos was closed for leaving ships this morning," Juan Francisco Resendez Estrada told Reuters in a telephone interview. He explained it was obviously open for incoming vessels that needed to take shelter from Tropical Storm Dolly.
Pajaritos in the state of Veracruz is one of three crude export terminals closed because of the threatening weather system.
State-owned oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos said earlier Wednesday its three Gulf of Mexico ports -- Pajaritos alongside Dos Bocas and Cayo Arcas in Campeche state -- had closed because of the threat from Dolly.
Another port source at Coatzacoalcos, just four km (2.5 miles) from Pajaritos said the crude port had been closed since 0800 (1300 GMT) Wednesday. "The crude fleet is not moving," he said.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.The head of Hong Kong's only all-cargo airline AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd said he is applying for a licence to start flying to the South Korean capital, Seoul.
In an interview with Reuters, Stanley Hui, AHK's chief operating officer said he does not expect any problems in permission being granted.
He said he is initially considering a twice-weekly service combining with the carrier's current service to Osaka in Japan.
Seoul will also be a technical stop for AHK's new service to Chicago via Anchorage which starts on next Sunday, August 25
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd, which owns a 75 per cent stake in the cargo airline, has handed over the route to AHK as it is concentrating on stepping up its own cargo flights to New York.
AHK is taking delivery of three converted Boeing 747-200 Combi aircraft with 100 tons cargo capacity for the twice weekly service to Chicago. This will be increased to three times a week in mid-October,Hui added.
The airline also has a European service to Brussels and Manchester via Dubai.
Hui said the return flight from Chicago will refuel in Anchorage and Osaka in Japan. Seoul would be cheaper but it has a curfew while Osaka's Kansai airport is open 24 hours, he explained.
He added that Hong Kong's route granting body, the Air Transport Licensing Authority, will publish the Seoul licence application on Friday.
"We don't expect any problems and it should get through quite easily within a couple of weeks," he said. - Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017California-based, Polar Air Cargo said it will start a new service from Taipei and Singapore to San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Peter Hansen, Vice President Asia, told Reuters in an interview that the twice weekly service to the US west coast on Wednesday and Saturdays will start on September 11. The current service from Taipei and Singapore only has links to the U.S. east coast.
"One aircraft comes into Taipei from Karachi and Singapore with both Californian and east coast cargo on it. Another joins it in Taipei from Sydney in Australia. After swapping any cargo it then goes onto San Francisco and Los Angeles with links to Miami and South America, the other aircraft goes onto Chicago and the east coast," Hansen explained to Reuters.
The carrier said it is using traffic rights it has held for some time for the new service. As on all its services, the airline will use a Boeing 747 with 95 tonnes capacity. --Air Cargo Newsroom tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017Air cargo rates on European routes from Hong Kong are to be increased for the second time in as many months, AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd's chief operating officer, Stanley Hui told Reuters in an interview.
Eastbound routes from Europe will also see cargo rates raised "a little bit," he said.
AHK is the territory's all-cargo airline and 75 percent owned by Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.
Warning letters have already been sent to freight forwarders about a HK$2 per kilo rise from October 1, and the new rise follows informal talks with other cargo carriers operating out of Hong Kong, Hui said.
A HK$3 increase took effect on August I to try and boost revenue as airlines faced falling yields, rising competition and over-capacity, industry sources said.
"We are not trying to be greedy, just trying to get back to the original level at the start of the year. There has to be a rate increase or airlines will continue to lose money," Hui said.
He said there has been a 20 per cent drop in cargo selling rates over the past six months. At the end of last year the typical westbound cargo rate was HK$21 a kilo, recently this slumped to as low as HK$15, he added.
"With the rapid drop in cargo rates over the past six months it has been extremely difficult for any airline to make money. We have all suffered to various extent in the first half. I don't think any cargo airline has made money in the first of the year because of rapid decline in yields and if we can't make money with our cost structure, other passenger airlines must find it very difficult." Hui said.
He said another rate rise is unlikely to be popular but thinks there are the first signs of a recovery in the second half.
"There is a rebound in the second half starting with August. So far this month we have been doing very well in terms of tonnage. We have also managed to put in this two to three dollar rate increase and in general we have been very successful with it. Without the rate increase, airlines will continue to lose money," he added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)Yemen signed a memorandum of understanding with Britain's construction company Tarmac to upgrade the Aden refinery which was partly damaged during the 1994 civil war, an official said on Wednesday.
Tarmac "will now present a final financial and technical offer in the coming three months" to upgrade the 170,000 barrel per day (bpd) refinery in the southern Yemeni port city of Aden, the oil ministry official told Reuters.
The some 40-year-old refinery, the only one in Yemen, has a current output of 100,000 bpd.
The official said Tarmac and National Westminster Bank Plc executives came to Yemen last week to discuss the project and sign the memorandum.
Impoverished Yemen, a newcomer to the elite club of Arab oil exporters, has a daily output of 350,000 bpd.The reduction in pulp stocks and an expected increase in consumption should boost white eucalyptus pulp prices this year and in 1997, the president of Portuguese pulp group Portucel Industrial, Jorge Godinho, said.
"We expect the prices of pulp and paper to continue to rise until the end of 1996 and this should continue in 1997," Godinho told Reuters.
He said the sharp drop in pulp prices between the end of 1995 and the first half of 1996 would pave the way for a recovery in prices.
"The fall was so strong between the end of 1995 and the first half of this year that prices could not stay so low," Godinho said without giving specific forecasts.
Analysts quoted by Diario Economico paper said the price of white eucalyptus pulp could rise to 460 ecus per tonne at the end of 1996 from the present level of 420 ecus set on July 1.
-- Jose Barata, LIsbon newsroom +351-1-3538254Zimbabwean cargo airline Affretair said it will expand capacity substantially on its Europe flights this winter to cope with increasing horticultural exports.
Ingo Zimmer, managing director of the airline's Germany general sales agent ATC Aviation Services, said the three summer flights to Amsterdam will be increased to four from October and five from January.
"This is a massive upgrading in terms of space for the winter flower season," he told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The introduction of a new McDonnell Douglas DC-10 aircraft will ease capacity limitations with the airline's two Douglas DC-8s on northbound legs, in particular, he added.
From October, Affretair will fly a separate Thursday DC-8 Amsterdam-Lusaka service which will allow a DC-10 service to Harare and Johannesburg on the same day, Zimmer said.
The existing Monday Harare flight and Saturday service to Harare and Johannesburg using DC-8 aircraft will be maintained.
From January, when the flower season peaks, Affretair will fly DC-10 services to Harare on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays with extensions to Johannesburg on Thursdays and Saturdays.
Zimmer said distribution from Amsterdam through Germany is secured by direct trucking services to all major German airports.
Affretair horticulture sales manager Phil Clitchlow said in July the airline had not had enough capacity to cope with demand in the last few years.
The Zimbabwean Horticultural Promotion Council said in July it expects to export more than 48,000 tonnes of fresh-cut flowers and edible produce to Europe in the 1995/96 season. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish industrial investment group Incentive confirmed on Wednesday media reports that it was mulling the sale of its Hagglunds Vehicle unit, but added a decision was not imminent.
"It's not a new story, strategically the unit does not belong to our core business," Incentive spokesman Bengt Modeer told Reuters, adding that the company would now concentrate on developing businesses such as its wholly-owned drugs unit Gambro.
Modeer said Incentive was not in a hurry to dispose of the military vehicle operation but would wait for the right buyer and the right price.
"We want to sell to a good new owner, it doesn't matter whether it's Swedish or not, as long as our criteria are met," he said.
Incentive also plans to dispose of its 35 percent interest in U.S. brake component manufacturer Wabco acquired through the purchase of former investment group Cardo.
"It's a profitable and well-run company, but we came over the holding through the Cardo deal, which was just a way of getting at the Gambro holding," Modeer said.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006India's state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said it was proceeding with a proposed joint venture refinery on the west coast in partnership with Oman Oil Company.
"We have no advice from Oman Oil on reconsideration (of the project)," HPCL chairman H.L.Zutshi said when asked about reports in Indian media which said Oman Oil was reviewing its commitment to the joint venture.
"As far as we know, their interest in the refinery continues," Zutshi said. "They have already subscribed to a portion of their equity," he said.
M.N. Advani, managing director of Hindustan Oman Petroleum Company Ltd, HPCL's joint venture with Oman Oil, told Reuters that land acquisition for the refinery on the western coast was proceeding smoothly.
"We have full support of the Maharashtra government," he said. The proposed refinery is coming up at Deoghar on the Maharashtra coast.
The refinery will have a capacity to process six million tonnes of crude oil a year.
Zutshi said a preliminary feasibility report on another proposed joint venture refinery in partnership with Saudi Aramco Oil Company has been submitted to the Indian government for approval.
This refinery, also with a capacity to process six million tonnes of crude annually, is to come up in the northern state of Punjab.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000India's state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) said it planned to build a liquified natural gas (LNG) facility in India in partnership with Total S.A. of France.
An HPCL official told Reuters a team of officials from both companies were looking for a suitable port-based location for the project.
She said the normal capacity for an LNG terminal was 2.5 million tonnes.
"We have signed an addendum to our earlier MOU (memorandum of understanding) with Total to include development of LNG projects," the official said.
HPCL and Total recently signed an MOU for floating joint ventures to build liquified petroleum gas (LPG) infrastructure and related facilities in India.
HPCL's new LPG import terminal at Mangalore with a capacity to handle 600,000 tonnes a year is scheduled to be commissioned next month, HPCL chairman H.L.Zutshi told reportes on Tuesday.
The company is also building LPG import facilities at the Vishakhapatnam outer harbour, Zutshi said.
-- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000British gas industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday announced a softer stance in a crucial price review of British Gas, but a row between the two looked set to continue as the privatised utility it was disappointed by the level of concessions.
Ofgas wants British Gas pipeline operating company TransCo to cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average British domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
"We are confident that these final proposals offer TransCo a realistic target for the next price control period and an appropriate incentive to improve efficiency and earn reward. We hope British Gas will accept the proposals," said Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode.
But British Gas said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
When Ofgas made its initial proposals, which included price cuts of 20 to 28 percent in 1997/98 and five percent thereafter, British Gas said the regime could cost up to 10,000 jobs at TransCo.
Rogerson said the firm stood by that figure after Ofgas' latest plans, adding: "We see no reason to change our view on jobs."
The level of the potential job losses has raised concerns over safety at TransCo if the price review goes ahead at these levels.
However, Spottiswoode dismissed the idea and said that independent safety watchdog, the Health and Safety Executive, had found the assumptions underpinning her proposals would not hit safety.
If British Gas rejects the proposals, Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to Britain's competition authority, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
Spottiswoode also struck a tone that suggested Ofgas' position was firm, and an MMC referral likely.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC," she told Reuters.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Spottiswoode, has worried some investors. But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike.
"We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he added.
Shares in British Gas rose in initial response to the Ofgas statement but later eased back to show a gain of four pence at 202 after a high of 210. Dealers said much of Ofgas' concesssions had alredy been factored into the price. ($1=.6471 Pound)Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
The joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said.
These will then be incorporated into a final filing to the U.K. and U.S. governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.  
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, Harwood said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.
He summarised the five key issues under review as follows:
1 - What to do with the two carriers' existing freight products;
2 - How to reconcile and overcome the operating differences between the American and British product lines;
3 - How to share the revenue and profit attributable to the two companies' freight services;
4 - Customer service and booking procedures and how to create a seamless booking environment;
5 - Ways in which the partners can share their respective cargo automation and computing service.
The implementation team had undertaken a series of joint consultations before returning to their respective companies, to take decisions on the key issues, he said.
He added: "In essence, we have to decide between us which products will survive and which won't. British Airways tends to offer flight-specific freight products whereas American Airlines has a combination of flight-specific and time-definite products."
"Determining what to keep and what to eliminate are the decisions that have to be made," he said.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux is to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said on Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds on replacement trains over the next 10 years.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise... We are committed to spending 400 million pounds to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer".
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds.
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds.
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks. ($1=.6460 Pound)French utility and service group Generale des Eaux agreed a 15-year franchise contract with the British government on Wednesday, for its second regional passenger train operating company in the UK -- South Eastern.
The deal will involve the company's CGEA division spending 400 million stg on trains to replace old models over the next 10 years, with the first of them coming into service in 1999.
In a joint statement with Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF), the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million stg in the first year of the contract, falling to an average of 35.7 million stg over the 15 year term.  
In the final year, the operator has agreed it will pay the government a net contribution of 2.8 million stg.
This year, net of a pre-set profit element, the government is giving South Eastern a subsidy of 120.8 million stg. Colin Webster, chairman of CGEA operating unit Connex Rail Ltd, said in the statement, "We believe we can turn this operation into a model fanchise... we are committed to spending 400 million stg to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years with first new trains coming in in 1999".
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.  
Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman, said the new trains being planned would be air conditioned and offer lower density seating than the many ageing passenger trains currently used on South Eastern network across southern London and Kent. Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers, and rolling stock leasing companies, about orders for new trains but was also considering the option of forming a separate train owning company of its own from which South Eastern could then lease the units.
He said the company expected to have decided on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.  
Connex is committed to maintaing certain levels of service as well as seeking to meet higher standards of punctuality and reliability.
It will operate "at least the current number of train miles for the first three years of the franchise, with a number of service enhancements in the inner and outer suburban areas".
Connex also intends to spend 25 million stg on improvements to stations and services, including ticketing and car parks.
Webster said the franchise would be run "entirely separately" from the company's existing South Central franchise, although he saw some scope for cost savings.
Franchising director Roger Salmon welcomed the deal, calling it, "the largest rolling stock replacement programme so far by a franchisee."
Transport minister Sir George Young called the award a milestone in the franchsing programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, "over half the country's rail services (are) now awarded to the private sector".
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Industry regulator Ofags said on Wednesday it would make no further concessions in any more talks with British Gas on the price proposals announced earlier today for pipleine operator TransCo.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC (Monopolies and Mergers Commission)," Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode told Reuters.  
"Obviously there are a lot of small things, so we will have further discussions, but I want them to agree or disagree with the basics," Spottiswoode said.
Ofgas said earlier it wanted TransCo to slice 20 percent off its charges to gas suppliers in the year from April 1997, which was at the bottom of the price cut initially proposed in May.
Ofgas main concession was in the price cuts for the following years, saying prices should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed earlier. "That is the result of going outside the asset base range and giving them some more money on operating expenditure," Spottiswoode said.  
Extra information provided by British Gas had prompted Ofgas to add 27 million stg a year on average to its projections of Ofgas' costs.
Ofgas also raised its regulatory asset figure to 11.7 billion stg from an initial range of nine to 11 billion stg.
"We wanted to make sure that we could...under any interpretation... not be accused of clawing back revenue that has already been allowed," Spottiswoode said.
British Gas has until October 7 to decide wether to accept or reject the final proposals. They will be referred to the MMC if rejected.
-- Hans de Jongh, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717Utility British Gas Plc said on Wednesday that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject a proposed price review from industry regulator Ofgas.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters in an interview.
The review proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.  
The price curbs proposed are at the bottom of a previously announced range of possible cuts.
But Rogerson said he was disappointed at the review.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," he said.
At the time the review was first announced, British Gas said it could cost up to a possible 10,000 jobs at TransCo and Rogerson said the firm was standing by that figure in the light of Ofgas' latest plans.
"We see no reason to change our view on jobs," he said.  
Rogerson said the firm is still hoping Ofgas will adjust its review downwards in the talks that lie ahead.
"We shall continue talking to Ofgas as long as we think there is a useful point in doing so. We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals," he said.
If British Gas rejects the proposals Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC). Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.  
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Ofgas, and its director general Clare Spottiswoode, has worried some investors.
But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike. "We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823Qatar Airways expects to add another five destinations to its route network before the end of the year, bringing the total to 31, its chief executive said on Wednesday.
Speaking by telephone from Doha, Sheikh Hamad bin Ali bin Jabr al-Thani told Reuters the two-year-old airline would start once-weekly services to Sanaa in Yemen and Tehran in Iran in November.
"We also expect to announce Frankfurt and Moscow before the end of the year," he said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Morocco agreed to sell four mines, including a silver and copper mine, to the country's largest private conglomerate ONA Group for the equivalent of $75 million, Privatisation Minister Abderrahman Saaidi said.
"After we reached an agreement in principle...we decided to sell the four mines to the ONA Group at 648.8 million dirhams," Saaidi told Reuters on Wednesday.
Morocco launched an international tender in March to sell four mines -- silver, copper, fluorite, cobalt -- in one lot at a minimum price of 648.8 million dirhams.
It also offered to sell a foundry and a manganese mine in two separate tenders.
An official statement would be issued as soon as the "commission of transfer" put its stamp on the accord, Saaidi added.
The biggest mine is Societe Metallurgique d'Imiter (SMI), in which the state offered its majority 69 percent holding or 668,380 shares. It valued the stake at a minimum 448.9 million dirhams.
SMI, in southeast Morocco, has a capital of 96.7 million dirhams and produced 234 tonnes of silver in 1994 out of the country's total output of 259 tonnes.
Upline Securities stockbrokers said they had expected the ONA Group, which already has 31 percent of SMI and varying stakes in the other mines, to purchase the four mines.
"ONA's strategy in the mining sector culminated in 1992 when the company started operating the Guemassa mine, one of the world's lowest cost producing zinc mines. It merged all its mining participations in a holding company called Compagnie Miniere du Maroc, prior to the privatisation of the four mines," Anas Alami, an analyst at Upline Securities, said.
The other mines are copper producer Societe Miniere de Bou-Gaffer (SOMIFER), fluorite mining company Societe Anonyme d'Entreprise Miniere (SAMINE) and cobalt mine companie de Tifnout Tiranimine (CTT).
The state sold 40 percent of CTT, 35 percent of SAMINE and 34 percent of SOMIFER.
The latest available figures for 1994 showed that Morocco produced 36,010 tonnes of copper, of which SOMIFER accounted for 22,932 tonnes, and 85,000 tonnes of fluorite extracted entirely from the SAMINE mine. Manganese production was estimated at at 30,700 tonnes.
The mines were on a list of 114 state enterprises slated for privatisation by end 1998.
($1= 8.6 dirhams)
-- Ali Bouzerda, Rabat newsroom (212-7) 726518British Petroleum Co Plc subsidiary BP Oil Yemen Ltd and Yemen Petroleum Company have signed a deal giving BP the right to operate and manage Aden international airport's refuelling depot and facilities, BP said on Wednesday.
"This contract paves the way for investment by BP in new facilities at the airport which will qualify for benefits under the Yemeni investment laws of 1992. YPC will receive an annual royalty for the concession which is for a 20-year period," the BP statement sent to Reuters said.
It said the deal involves a "phased investment of up to $2 million."Subdued business during the long hot Arabian summer continues to take its toll on Dubai's air cargo market, with rates languishing at the year's lows.
Operators have resigned themselves to at least another month of lean margins, but:"In the next month and a half it should go back up," Air Express International's Emirates manager Paul Lattouf said.
"It probably won't improve until October, and even then there will still be the problem of severe overcapacity," another said.
"From Dubai it is now fairly quiet, as it usually is in July and August. A lot of decision makers are out of Dubai so whatever orders that have been placed, were placed a month or so ago," Lattouf added.
"The market is very dull and the competition between airlines intense. Some are selling at dead-cheap rates and they are not even collecting their aviation fuel charges," the Dubai cargo officer for a Far Eastern carrier said.
Trading activity in Dubai, the gateway to the Gulf and an important East-West trans-shipment point, traditionally eases during the summer holiday season.
But this year's slowdown has been exacerbated by shrinking sea-air business from the Indian subcontinent and the Far East.
The airport said sea-air freight volumes fell a year-on-year 8.6 percent in July to 5,012 tonnes -- the fourth successive year-on-year fall so far in 1996. It follows drops of 34.7 percent in April, 17.7 percent in May and 3.3 percent in June.
Sea-air freight has always been an important part of air cargo shipments out of Dubai. Goods are brought in bulk by sea and are then broken down into smaller packages and sent by air mainly to Europe and the United States.
But operators say this business has come under pressure in the past few months. Air freight rates in the Far East and Indian subcontinent have eased, prompting shippers to send their goods directly by air, rather than use sea-air, they say.
"The re-export side is down and lots of lower ad-hoc rates are being offered," said a forwarder.
"Some airlines are going empty because the rates are so low," another said of the many carriers which make a technical stop in Dubai en route between Europe and the Far East, and try to fill any available space with cargo from Dubai.
"To London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam we are going as low as three or up to a maximum of 3.50 dirhams a kg, but some are going down to 2.20-2.50," one airline cargo manager said.
Reuters' calculations put the average rate on a 100 kg shipment with a six-to-one volume-to-weight ratio to London Heathrow down three fils on a month earlier at 3.57 dirhams.
Before then, the average rate had been static at 3.60 since the Reuter June 7 ex-Dubai market report.
Mirroring the slip to London, the average rate to Frankfurt is also down at 3.57 dirhams from 3.60.
Volumes to the United States are still slim with rates on the route out of Dubai sticking around the levels seen in the past few months.
The average rate to JKF is at 5.80 dirhams a kg and the rate to Los Angeles is also unchanged at an average 6.60.
"Over 500 kg we are offering 5.30 to New York," a cargo officer at a large Gulf-based carrier said.
With business to the Far East continuing slow, the average rates to Singapore and Hong Kong are flat at last month's 3.90.
"We don't really change those rates because demand is always thin," said a forwarder.
Similarly, to Nairobi the average rate on a 100 kg shipment is keeping within its established 3.90-3.95 band, at 3.93 dirhams a kg on August 21.
-- Dubai newsroom +9714-626990Consolidated Statement of Operations
			    Three Months Ended     Six Months Ended
				   June 30		    June 30
 Unaudited ($000s)	   1996	1995	1996	1995
Revenue
Oil and gas sales,
   net of royalties	20,746    16,292    38,293    33,062
  Pipeline and facility     863	 615     1,889     1,752
Equity interest in
   pipeline operations	114	 260	 320	 510
				 21,723    17,167    40,502    35,324
Expenses
  Production		  7,329     5,830    14,050    11,295
General and
   administrative	   1,672     1,349     2,830     2,761
Interest and
   bank charges		 832	 367     1,873	 700
Depletion and
   depreciation	     8,008     5,928    15,118    11,906
				 17,841    13,474    33,871    26,662
 Net Income Before Tax    3,882     3,693     6,631     8,662
Income Taxes
  Current			 600	 409	 991	 777
  Deferred		    1,374     1,600     2,224     3,700
Net Income for
  the Period		  1,908     1,684     3,416     4,185
Cash Flow from
  Operations		 11,294     9,071    20,675    19,519
			     Financial and Operating Results
Per Share Data
  Net Income - basic	 0.08	0.09	0.15	0.21
		 - fully
		   diluted     0.08	0.08	0.15	0.20
  Cash flow  - basic	 0.49	0.45	0.93	0.97
		 - fully
		   diluted     0.44	0.39	0.83	0.84
Common Shares
  Outstanding (000's)    23,073    20,274    23,073    20,274
Weighted Average
   (000's)		   22,223    20,126    22,223    20,126
Capital Expenditures
  (Net)			16,406    12,417    48,731    24,776
Production
  Crude Oil (bbl/day)    12,774    10,008    11,925     9,932
  Natural Gas (mcf/d)    19,738    18,055    21,584    19,395
Prices
  Crude Oil ($/bbl)	 21.94     19.86     19.80     19.28
  Natural Gas ($/mcf)	1.28	1.12	1.35	1.30
Operating Expenses
Barrel of oil
   equivalent ($/boe)	5.36	5.23	5.36	5.07
					Condensed Balance Sheet
 As at	     As at
						Jun 30	     Dec 31
 Unaudited ($000s)			 1996		  1995
Assets
  Current Assets			  21,399	     22,106
  Investments				7,508		7,458
  Property Plant & Equipment	 214,396	    180,516
					     243,303	    210,080
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
 Current Liabilities		    21,177	     30,069
 Long Term Debt			   56,455	     46,521
 Deferred Charges			 23,519	     21,304
Shareholders' Equity
 Common Shares			   115,971	     89,421
 Retained Earnings			26,181	     22,765
					     142,152	    112,186
					     243,303	    210,080
CS Resources Limited is a Calgary-based petroleum company with operations focused in the western Canada sedimentary basin.  The Company's common shares are listed for trading on the Montreal Exchange and The Toronto Stock Exchange.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100The newspapers that belong to the Canadian Press news co-operative have agreed to stay within the agency, Canadian Press said on Wednesday.
CP also said president David Jolley has resigned effective immediately, after seven months on board.
Michael Sifton, chairman of Hollinger Inc unit Sterling Newspapers, will become chairman of CP. Jim Poling, the news agency's vice-president of editorial, will be general manager while CP restructures, the agency said.
Former Southam executive Jim Armitage will work as a consultant, CP said.  
CP said Sifton told employees at the agency's head office in Toronto Tuesday morning that the moves by the board "set the stage for a renewed Canadian Press."
The future of the venerable news agency was cast into doubt earlier this summer when Southam Inc, the largest of CP's 88 members, said it planned to pull out of the co-operative by the end of 1996.
CP's other members were forced to issue notices echoing Southam's because the structure of the organization means that members who remain are liable for all the common expenses when others withdraw.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Hydro-Quebec said on Wednesday that it agreed with Nordion International Inc, a unit of MDS Health Group Ltd, for the production of cobalt 60 at its Gentilly-2 nuclear power station.
The five-year agreement, which runs from 1997 to 2002, provides for the production of between 15 and 20 million curies of cobalt 60 and will generate millions of dollars a year in revenues for Hydro-Quebec, the Quebec government-owned utility said.
A previous five-year agreement with Nordion (1985-1989) for the production of 18 million curries of cobalt 60 had not been renewed because of an oversupply situation. Cobalt 60 is a radioactive isotope of cobalt 59 that results from the irradiation of cobalt 59 in a nuclear reactor. The production of cobalt 60 has no effect on the output or safety of the reactor, Hydro-Quebec said.
Cobalt 60 is used for treating cancer, sterilizing medical and surgical products, preserving food, combating food-borne illness and decontaminating waste. Nordion supplies more than 80 percent of the global demand for cobalt 60, Hydro-Quebec said.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Coastal Resources Ltd said on Wednesday it reached an agreement with the board of directors of Canadian Jorex Ltd whereby the board will recommend Jorex shareholders accept an offer from Coastal to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Jorex for cash at a price of C$0.68 per share.
Coastal, a private, Calgary-based oil and gas company, said the offer will remain open until September 12 and is conditional upon at least two-thirds of the outstanding Jorex shares being tendered under the offer.
It said it will fund the acquisition of the Jorex shares through cash on hand and existing lines of credit.
The Coastal offer represents an eight-percent premium to the previously announced cash offer of C$0.63 a share by Cypress Energy Inc and a 26-percent premium to the closing price of C$0.54 on July 8, the date prior to Cypress announcing its offer.
Coastal said a major Jorex shareholder, representing about 53.1 percent of the fully diluted outstanding shares, has agreed to tender its shares under Coastal's offer, subject to the right of Cypress to match Coastal's offer.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.60		   C$0.73
 Net			 27,400		   32,500
 Revs		     932,000		  974,000
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$O.89		   C$1.09
 Net			 41,800		   49,800
 Revs		   1,900,000		2,000,000
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is Desjardins-Laurentian Financial Corp. Year earlier quarter includes net profit from continuing operations of C$16.3 million or C$0.34 per share, while year earlier six months includes net profit from continuing operations of C$32 million or C$0.65 a share.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Shares in Newbridge Networks Corp soared on Wednesday after the company laid to rest lingering investor fears with a solid first quarter report.
The company's first quarter earnings of C$0.70 or US$0.51 a share beat consensus estimates by two U.S. cents. This proved last month's first quarter warnings from two U.S. analysts unjustified, analysts said.
"The numbers were not just good...but more importantly, you see sequential and year-over-year order growth in ATM (asynchronous transfer mode), in frame (relay) and in TDM (time division multiplexing)," said analyst Robert MacLellan.  
"It's a quarter that if you were a bear on Newbridge, you would have a very hard time finding anything to complain about. It all looked great," MacLellan added.
The stock spiked 8.45 to 75.00 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and 6-1/2 to 54-7/8 on Wall Street.
Analysts' warnings about the quarter from UBS Securities and Needham & Co in July sent the stock diving. It has been in recovery mode recently with other brokerages issuing reassuring reports ahead of the earnings release.
"The numbers were very solid," said one portfolio manager who declined to be identified.  
"No matter how you slice and dice them, there're no tricks, no smoke, no mirrors. They don't just look good, they are good," the portfolio manager said.
The stock has fallen from a year peak of 102 in May to below 57 in Toronto in late July after the first caution.
Newbridge said Tuesday it is on track for another strong year. The company, which manufactures networking equipment, also on Tuesday said it planned to renew its normal course issuer bid. Under the renewed bid, Newbridge will have the right to purchase four million, or about 4.7 percent, of its common shares during the next 12 months.  
JP Morgan said analyst William Rabin upgraded shares of Newbridge Networks Corp to buy from market performer and raised earnings estimates to US$2.22 per share from US$2 for fiscal 1997 ending April 30.
He also increased his 1998 forecast to US$2.76 from US$2.40 for 1998.
-- Sarah Edmonds, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100, E-mail sarah.edmonds@reuters.com1996			    1995
 Shr			 C$0.64		   C$0.53
 Net			 16,651		   13,332
 Revs			95,232		   64,325
	    6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.69		   C$0.88
 Net			 18,831		   21,891
 Revs		     150,924		  137,473
 Avg shrs		  23,093		   21,439
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Golden Knight Resources Inc said its shareholders voted at an extraordinary general meeting yesterday 99 percent in favor of increasing the authorized capital of the company.
It said a special resolution was approved creating 80 million additional common shares without par value, resulting in a total authorized capital of 100 million common shares.
Golden Knight said the increased capitalization will enable the company to proceed with the recently announced acquisition of an additional 12.5 percent of Gold Fields Ghana Ltd and the financing required for the transaction.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100MDS Health Group Ltd said it signed agreements to acquire Nebraska-based Harris Laboratories Inc and Montreal-based Neo-Pharm Laboratories Inc, which will more than double MDS's revenue from pharmaceutical services to about C$100 million a year.
Financial details of the deal were not disclosed.
MDS said the acquired companies will be integrated with the existing international contract research operations of MDS and managed through newly formed MDS Pharmaceuticals Service, with operations in Canada, Germany, China, Taiwan, the United States and Britain.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-8100Scott Paper Ltd said on Wednesday that it reached an agreement in principle with Kimberly-Clark Corp regarding trademark and technology licensing and transition issues.
Once formalized, this deal will give Scott Paper Ltd access for 10 years to most of the brands and technology it has licensed from Kimberly-Clark Tissue Co, formerly known as Scott Paper Co (U.S.).
Scott Paper Ltd will also be granted the time and flexibility to transition those brands which will be returned to Kimberly-Clark earlier than in 10 years.
On April 18, Kimberly-Clark announced it planned to sell its 50.1 percent stake in Scott Paper Ltd.
Scott Paper Ltd and its advisers will therefore now seek a purchaser willing to make an offer for 100 percent of the company, Scott Paper Ltd said.
"I am delighted to announce we have an agreement-in-principle on the most significant business issue which arose out of the acquisition of Scott Paper Co by Kimberly-Clark Corp in December 1995," Lee Griffith, president & chief executive of Scott Paper, said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.17		     $0.17
 Pay		     Nov 1
 Record		 Oct 15
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.28		    $0.21
 Net			    916			684
 Revs			21,623		   15,454
 Avg shrs		   3,270		    3,185
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Full name is Engineered Support Systems Inc.  
		     NINE MONTHS
 Shr			  $0.65		    $0.51
 Net			  2,119		    1,689
 Revs			57,594		   48,453
 Avg shrs		   3,250		    3,325
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		$0.4125		   $0.4125
 Pay		   Sept 15
 Record		 Sept 3
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.305		    $0.305
 Pay		    Oct 11
 Record		Sept 27
Note: Full name of company is Manufactured Home Communities Inc.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Years ended June 30,
							 1996	   1995
 Interest income			   $   42,038    $	 --
Expenses:
    General and administration	  1,218,674     1,193,285
    Research and development		991,701	 503,375
    Minimum royality expense		125,000	 175,000
    Financing				   103,626	 198,632
	    Total expenses		  2,439,001     2,070,292
 Loss before income taxes	     (2,396,963)   (2,070,292)
 Net loss				   (2,396,963)   (2,070,292)
 Loss per common share			  (.07)	   (.31)
Weighted average common shares
    outstanding			    31,991,150     6,786,986
NOTE: Fiscal fourth quarter results were not available.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Celox Laboratories Inc said Wednesday it recently received a notice of allowance from the United States Patent and Trademark Office for a patent covering ViaStem, its bone marrow transplantation product.
The company said it expects to receive the patent within the next two months.
ViaStem was developed to improve the storage of stem cells from bone marrow or peripheral blood while a patient receives chemotherapy and/or radiation treatment for immunologic disorders or malignant disease.
It added that ViaStem could potentially be used in other clinical situations including preservation of umbilical cord blood and platelets.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.23		    $0.19
 Net			  8,010		    6,703
 Revs			78,966		   68,216
 Avg shrs		  35,171		   34,779
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Three months ended  Nine months ended
				     1996     1995	1996     1995
 Net sales		     $86,169 $74,362  $219,125 $195,545
 Cost of sales		  60,752  51,805   155,601  137,412
Selling, general and
   administrative expense   18,217  14,975    49,934   43,350
 Operating income		6,972   7,366    12,920   14,137
Income from continuing
   operations		    3,937   4,249     6,901    7,843
Income from discontinued operation,
    net of tax			--     187	  --	653
 Net income			3,937   4,436     6,901    8,496
Per share:
Income from continuing
     operations		   0.36    0.39	0.63     0.71
Income (loss) from
     discontinued operations  0.00    0.02	0.00     0.06
 Net income			 0.36    0.40	0.63     0.77
 Weighted shrs outstanding  10,994  11,006    10,990   11,048
NOTE: Sum of Q3 1995 continuing and discontinued operating income greater than net income due to rounding.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Energen Corp said on Wednesday that its oil and gas exploration and production subsidiary, Taurus Exploration Inc, retains sole ownership of the estimated 100 billion cubic feet of coalbed methane reserves recently purchased from Burlington Resources Inc.
Energen said that neither of Taurus's eligible coalbed methane partners elected to participate in the acquisition, as provided for under the terms of two area of mutual interest agreements.  
An Energen spokeswoman told Reuters that the two eligible partners were subsidiaries of TECO Energy Inc and Chevron Corp.Northwest Airlines will offer the maximum number of trans-pacific freighter rotations - 19 round trips per week - for the autumn cargo peak, airline spokesman Doug Killian said.
The 19 round trips are unchanged from last year's fall-winter schedule and the current summer schedule, he told Reuters in a telephone interviews added.
Normally, the airline would have at least one of its eight Boeing 747 freighters out of service during the summer for scheduled maintenance, but was able to keep all eight flying this year, he said.
"The market is looking good," he said.
The 1996-97 winter schedule includes a freighter service to Osaka's Kansai International Airport, inaugurated for the summer schedule, said Killian.
Northwest will serve Kansai twice weekly westbound from the U.S. and five times weekly eastbound to the U.S. as part of through flights to/from Tokyo, Hong Kong and Taipei.
Northwest's freighter gateways in the U.S. include New York, San Francisco, Minneapolis, Columbus (Ohio), Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles. All flights refuel in Anchorage.
In Asia, Northwest's freighters serve Osaka, Tokyo, Seoul, Taipei, Hong Kong, Bangkok and Singapore.
Killian also said the airline will have significantly more belly cargo space on passenger flights to Beijing, now that it has started a non-stop Detroit-Beijing service.
Northwest will operate six passenger flights weekly to Beijing, including three operating on a Los Angeles-Tokyo-Beijing routing, said Killian.
Beijing is a very solid cargo market in both directions, he said.
"There is a lot of high-yielding freight, a lot of manufactured goods and textiles moving from China to North America and a lot of high-tech equipment moving particularly from Florida and Texas to China on our flights to Beijing."
Killian said there is also a large livestock trade developing from the U.S. to China, but that moves on freighters, and Northwest will unable be able to put a freighter into China until at least 1998. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017H&R Block Inc, which offers tax and financial services, said its loss for the fiscal first quarter was due to anticipated increases in expenses associated with compensation, rent and utilities.
Incremental operating costs and amortization of goodwill from tax businesses acquired in fiscal 1996 also increased expenses for the quarter.
H&R Block reported a net loss from continuing operations of $0.27 a share. A year ago, it had a net loss from continuing operations of $0.20 a share, which included a one-time gain realized on the MECA Software Inc sale and the write-down of certain impaired assets.
H&R Block said its tax services business typically reports losses in the first three quarters. "While most of the revenues for the tax business are generated in the fourth quarter, certain expenses remain year round," Frank Salizzoni, interim president, said in a statement.
Revenues from H&R Block Tax Services' U.S. operations rose nearly 22 percent to $9.6 million in the quarter. Revenues from international tax operations increased more than 29 percent to $2.7 million. Revenues for Block Financial Corp increased nearly 31 percent to $8.2 million.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Freight forwarders still object to key elements of new U.S. air cargo security rules, the U.S. Airforwarders Association executive director James Foster said.
Foster told Reuters in a telephone interview that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had made some changes in recent days but did not satisfy the forwarders' principal objections.
The FAA said on Tuesday that it would implement the new rules on August 28, 12 days later than originally planned.
The rules, a response to the ValuJet and TWA tragedies, were set to take effect originally on August 16, but the FAA suspended their implementation amid a barrage of criticism from forwarders, consolidators and shippers.
The cargo community said the new rules created an additional paperwork burden, would slow the flow of cargo and would not appreciably improve security.
"They have made a few changes, but the paperwork objection still stands as well as the objection to the wording," said Foster.
The regulations specify that shippers must produce two pieces of photo identification when making a shipment and certify in writing that it does not contain explosives or destructive or dangerous materials.
The documentation must be kept on file by the forwarder or carrier until after the safe arrival of the shipment at its final destination.
Many shippers and forwarders have denounced this as excessively bureaucratic, says Foster.
"It doesn't really seem to serve a purpose," he said. "It is fairly objectionable to the shipper the way things are worded."
He said many forwarders believe the existing security measures are sufficient to protect the commercial air cargo stream.
"We feel this was an over-reaction to circumstances that really haven't been shown to have anything to do with commercial cargo."
Under existing U.S. security rules, freight forwarders can accept shipments only from known companies. Forwarders and shippers say it is unlikely that the additional requirement for photo ID will stop a terrorist, only leave a longer paper trail for investigators to follow after a tragedy.
Foster said there also is a concern that the new rules will slow processing of air freight.
"When you slow it down, you reduce the value in shipping by air," he added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Air Atlantic, a predominantly cargo carrier based on Spain's Canary Islands, is planning to expand its fleet and begin regular passenger services, its director Eduardo Gomez said on Wednesday.
The company operates three Fairchild Metros and intends to acquire a fourth, Gomez told Reuters.
It already has agreements with tour operators to run regular inter-island services, likely to start next month, and further ahead would like to increase its links with neighbouring Morocco.
Technically these are charter flights but they will be at regular times and tickets will undercut those of Iberia's regional subsidiary Binter by 10 or 15 percent, Gomez said.
The privately-owned company's business is now 75 percent regional cargo, typically imports of Moroccan shellfish or mail and medicines moving between the islands.
Its aircraft can carry 19 passengers or up to 2.3 tonnes of cargo each and are now performing around 16 flights a day between them. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017Austria's blue-chip insurer Wiener Staedtische Allgemeine Versicherung AG said on Wednesday it had launched insurance services in neighbouring southern Germany as part of its European expansion programme.
The company said it would intitially focus on products which were cheaper than those already available in Germany or which did not yet exist in the form offered by Wiener Staedtische.
Among the services mentioned were private pensions, accident and home-owner's insurance.
"We certainly won't be moving into the mass market of automobile insurance," Wiener Staedtische director Hans Raumauf told Reuters.
Raumauf declined to comment on the projected insurance premium volume.
The company said sales would be managed by independent agents and agencies, adding it was not yet planning its own local sales for financial reasons. -- Vienna newsroom +43 1 531-12-257An average of analysts' forecasts predicts that Denmark's Den Danske Bank will report a 28 percent drop in profits when it publishes first half 1996 results on Thursday.
Seven analysts polled by Reuters predicted an ordinary pre-tax result of between 1.25 and 2.25 billion crowns, giving an average of 1.835 billion, compared to 2,537 billion in the first half of 1995.
Those at the lower end of the widely-divergent range of forecasts said they expected the bank's earnings from securities and foreign exchange dealings to fall by two-thirds.
They predicted earnings of 300 million crowns, compared to 906 million during the first half of 1995.
The most optimistic forecast still had forex and stock earnings down, to 775 million crowns. The average was 480 million.
--Ole Mikkelsen, Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650An investment fund bought just over 3.6 percent of Portuguese construction firm Somague-SGPS in pre-trade on the Lisbon bourse, a company spokesman said.
"A fund bought 400,000 shares in Somague. I won't say if it was a national or a foreign fund," Somague's vice president Diogo Vaz Guedes told Reuters.
Somague stood unchanged at 1,100 escudos in volume of 450,200 shares on Lisbon bourse at 0955 GMT.
"Institutional investors are very interested in Somague, and today's operation shows that the market recognised the results of our restructuring and once again considers that we are a big player in Portuguese construction," Vaz Guedes said.
-- Jose Barata, Lisbon newsroom +351-1-3538254French retailer Promodes expects its first-half net attributable profit to be higher despite lower operating profits, a company executive said on Wednesday.
Finance executive Alexandre Roeser told Reuters the company reaffirmed its forecast for an increase of between 10-15 percent in the full-year 1996 net attributable profit.
"The forecasts of higher consolidated profits for the 1996 year, as made at an analysts' meeting in May, are not in question," he said.
Promodes expects its operating profit for the first six months to be lower compared to a year ago, but financial results and exceptional gains will allow the group to offset that and post a higher net attributable result than the comparable 1995 period.
It posted 288 million francs net attributable profit in the first half 1995. It made 1996 first-half sales of 49.38 billion francs.  
Promodes is due to announce its first-half profit on September 10. It posted 1995 net attributable profit of 1.02 billion francs.
It expects a consumer recovery and customer promotions in the second half to boost net attributable profit for the year, although it could not estimate by how much.
Promodes shares cut their losses after the forecast and were down six francs at 1,210, or 0.49 percent, at 1047 GMT, after hitting a day-low of 1,171. The wider market was down 0.72 percent.
-- Paris newsroom +33 1 4221 5452 nm/pntLower than expected first half profits at Swiss banking group CS Holding underscore the urgency of huge restructuring plans announced by the conglomerate in July, analysts said.
Analysts said net profit for the first six months, which increased 20 percent after minority interests, was below most expectations. Costs grew more strongly than widely forecast.
But several analysts also said the quality of CS profits was increasing and added that the group had greater potential than rivals Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) or Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) because it was restructuring later.  
Market forecasts of net profit had ranged between 879 million and 1.104 billion Swiss francs, compared to the group's 830 million after minority interests.
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," said banking analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively high at CS Holding than at the others," he told Reuters.
CS Holding's total operating expenses rose 17 percent, which it said was mainly due to incentive bonuses paid to staff.  
John Leonard from Salomon Bros in London said he was puzzled that staff bonuses had risen so strongly.
CS Holding said incentive pay comprised 400 million Swiss francs of an overall increase in staff costs of 498 million, or 21 percent, to 2.86 billion Swiss francs.
"I know incentive payments increase generally as revenues grow. But it was a real source of suprise that the accruals for incentive compensation rose so strongly," he said.
"Total costs were a couple of hundred million (Swiss francs) more than I expected," Leonard added.  
Leonard said the cost ratio at CS Holding was 67.4 percent including depreciation, as against 69 percent a year earlier.
By comparison, SBC had a cost ratio with depreciation of 68.4 percent in the first half of this year and UBS posted 61.5.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research, who had forecast net profit growth higher at 28 percent, said it was positive that commission income now made up 38 percent of all earnings from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
Kalbermatten said potential costs savings and earnings growth had alrady been tapped at least in part by CS's rivals.
UBS has spent several years streamlining its activities and SBC, which last year integrated investment banking arm SBC Warburg, in May announced a reorganisation along four core business lines.
Kalbermattern said he would maintain his estimates for CS Holding 1996 full-year net profit of 1.6 billion or 8.50 Swiss francs earnings per share and for 1997 of 2.07 billion or 10.90 per share. He maintains CS and SBC as buy ratings.
Salomon's Leonard said he would likely lower his EPS estimates from 8.96 Swiss francs this year and 10.40 in 1997. CS Holding would remain a hold alongside SBC and UBS, with SBC favoured.
Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank also said he would lower his 1996 full-year forecast for CS Holding from net profit of 1.619 billion and an EPS of 8.40.
Bieri said he would likley downgrade CS Holding from buy to hold. UBS is a hold and SBC a buy in his ratings.
-- Marcus Kabel, Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340Comalco Ltd on Wednesday confirmed it was in early stage talks with Canada's Noranda Inc to build an aluminium smelter in Southern Chile.
"All we're really doing is having discussions in terms of feasibility of an aluminium smelter project in Chile," a Comalco spokeswoman told Reuters.Mobil Corp's Australian unit said on Wednesday its 108,000 barrels per day oil refinery in Melbourne was operating at 80 percent of normal output following the repair of its cracking unit.  
"The cracker is up and running," a Mobil spokeswoman told Reuters.
She said the refinery was expected to return to normal output by the middle of next week, pending the repair of one of three crude oil distillation units at the site.
The refinery's cracker, which was shut down eight days ago for repairs, extracts gas, gasoline, diesel and LPG products after the crude distillation process.
The Mobil spokeswoman said the refinery was still taking 100 percent Gippsland crude input instead of its usual practice of supplementing Gippsland crude input with imports.  
Gippsland crude is piped from the offshore Bass Strait fields owned 50/50 by Exxon Corp subsidiary Esso Australia Ltd and The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd.
She declined to comment on the refinery's current crude oil intake.
A Mobil source said Monday the refinery ordinarily took about 11 megalitres a day of Gippsland crude, representing half of its total normal crude oil intake.
-- Melbourne bureau 61-3 9286-1435The following table provides the latest results of Intech Asset Consulting Pty's domestic and international asset allocation survey of 36 fund managers, in asset-weighted terms, as at July 31.
Reuters carries the monthly asset allocation survey on the 21st of each month, or the first working weekday after the 21st. (Asset-weighted averages expressed in percentage terms)
			 Domestic Allocation
---------------------------------------------------------------
------Equities----- ---Bonds----  Cash  --Property-- Venture
    Total Indust. Res. Nominal/Index	Direct/Listed Capital
---------------------------------------------------------------
Jul  36.0  23.5  12.5   16.7  4.0    8.2    6.6   4.2     1.1
Jun  36.9  23.8  13.1   16.4  3.9    7.5    6.3   4.2     1.1
May  37.2  23.4  13.8   16.6  3.9    7.2    6.2   3.9     1.2
Apr  37.9  23.6  14.3   15.9  3.5    6.8    6.9   3.8     1.0
Mar  37.6  23.7  13.9   15.8  3.5    6.7    7.5   3.6     1.0
Feb  38.1  24.5  13.6   16.4  4.0    5.6    6.6   4.1     1.1
Jan  38.4  24.9  13.5   16.1  4.0    5.2    6.7   4.0     1.1
Dec  38.6  24.7  13.9   16.0  4.0    5.3    6.8   3.9     1.1
Nov  38.7  24.9  13.8   16.3  3.9    5.0    6.9   3.8     1.2
Oct  38.5  24.9  13.6   16.4  3.9    5.5    7.1   3.8     1.2
Sep  39.2  25.2  14.0   16.4  3.4    5.0    8.0   3.4     1.0
Aug  39.5  25.1  14.4   17.0  3.4    4.5    8.1   3.3     1.1
Jul  38.8  24.8  14.0   16.9  3.4    4.9    8.1   3.2     1.1
Jun  37.6  24.7  12.9   18.2  3.5    4.5    8.1   3.2     1.1
May  37.5  24.7  12.8   18.2  3.6    4.6    8.2   3.2     1.0
Apr  38.0  24.7  13.3   18.7  3.4    5.4    8.1   3.1     1.1
Mar  37.2  24.6  12.6   19.7  3.4    5.0    8.2   3.1     1.1
Feb  37.6  24.5  13.1   19.2  3.4    5.3    7.9   3.4     1.1
			    Year Averages
1995 38.2  24.7  13.5   17.7  3.5    5.2    7.8   3.4     1.1
1994 38.2  25.0  13.2   16.6  3.5    6.6    6.5   3.1     1.1
1993 37.7  25.6  12.1   18.1  2.8    3.8    5.9   2.6     1.3
1992 36.6  23.8  12.8   20.9  0.2    4.5    7.6   2.3     1.6
1991 34.9  22.8  12.1   19.0  0.0    6.9    9.9   2.3     1.8
1990 30.8  18.8  12.0   21.0  N/A   12.6  11.8    2.6     2.0
		    International Allocation
---------------------------------------------------------------
	   Equities	Bonds     Cash	Property
---------------------------------------------------------------
    Jul   17.9	   4.5	 0.4	   0.3
    Jun   18.3	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    May   18.6	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    Apr   18.9	   4.6	 0.3	   0.3
    Mar   19.6	   4.2	 0.3	   0.2
    Feb   19.3	   4.4	 0.1	   0.3
    Jan   19.6	   4.7	 0.1	   0.3
    Dec   19.3	   4.7	-0.1	   0.3
    Nov   19.2	   4.7	-0.1	   0.3
    Oct   18.6	   4.6	 N/A	   0.3
    Sep   19.2	   4.0	 0.1	   0.3
    Aug   18.7	   4.0	 0.1	   0.3
    Jul   19.1	   3.8	 0.2	   0.3
    Jun   18.9	   4.3	 0.4	   0.3
    May   18.6	   4.4	 0.3	   0.3
    Apr   17.9	   4.0	 0.3	   0.3
    Mar   18.0	   4.0	 N/A	   0.3
    Feb   17.1	   4.7	 N/A	   0.3
    Jan   16.9	   3.7	 0.1	   0.3
			 Year Averages
    1995  18.5	   4.2	 N/A	   0.3
    1994  18.7	   5.3	 0.1	   0.3
    1993  19.0	   8.2	 0.1	   0.4
    1992  18.8	   6.9	 0.3	   0.3
    1991  18.3	   6.1	 0.5	   0.3
    1990  14.7	   3.1	 1.1	   0.2
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373 1800Woodside Petroleum Ltd said on Wednesday repair work would cause crude oil production from its Cossack offshore operation to be reduced by more than half to about 50,000 barrels a day for three weeks in September.  
The curtailment in output would result from the shutdown of the operation's gas export system, a Woodside spokesman told Reuters.
The spokesman said the operation had been mostly producing crude oil at or above its rated capacity of 115,000 barrels a day in recent weeks.
"We're looking at a three-week shut down of the gas export system in September... during that period oil production would probably have to be cutback to around 50,000 barrels a day," the spokesman said. "There is no reason why between now and September we can't maintain full production," he said.  
"We are at the moment capable of maintaining full production," he added
In order to prolong the life of a new dehydration component of the vessel, the repair work is required to rectify faults causing an excess moisture problem, the spokesman said.
"When you shut down the gas export system it means that we have to flare any gas that comes up associated with the oil. Because of limitations on the amount of gas we can flare, we have to reduce oil production accordingly," the spokesman said.  
The joint venture partners in the operation are currently reviewing the repair work, which is likely to occur in the last three weeks of September, the spokesman said.
"We could carry on with constant interuptions to the system, but it's much better to bite the bullet and try and rectify the problem completely," he said.
Equal partners in the field are Woodside, Japan Australia LNG (MiMi) Pty Ltd and units of The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, British Petroleum Co Plc, Chevron Corp and Royal Dutch/Shell Group.  
Woodside shares were 2.0 cents up at A$7.72 by 1.25 p.m. (0325 GMT).
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800Indonesia's PT Inti Indorayon Utama said on Wednesday it was considering acquiring the chemical assets of PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper and selling Indorayon's power plants to boost efficiency after a recent weak performance.
"We are considering acquiring the chemical assets of Riau Andalan and selling the power plants of Indorayon in an effort to increase efficiency," corporate secretary P. Daritan told Reuters.
Inti Indorayon and Riau Andalan belong to New York-listed Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) which has its administrative office in Singapore.
Daritan said the firm expected the purchase of the chemical assets, used in the production of pulp and paper, to strengthen its chemical division.
He said the plans were expected to materialise next year, but declined to give further details, saying Indorayon was still calculating the figures.
The efficiency effort was neccessary following the firm's weak 1996 first-half results, he said.Indonesia's PT Inti Indorayon Utama said on Wednesday it was considering acquiring the chemical assets of PT Riau Andalan Pulp and Paper and selling its power plants to increase efficiency following recent weak performance.
"We are considering acquiring the chemical assets of Riau Andalan and selling the power plants of Indorayon in an effort to increase efficiency," corporate secretary P. Daritan told Reuters.
Both Inti Indorayon and Riau Andalan belong to New York-listed Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings Ltd (April) which has its administrative office in Singapore.  
Daritan said the firm expected the purchase of the chemical assets, used in the production of pulp and paper, to strengthen its chemical division.
He said the plans were expected to materialise next year, but declined to give further details saying Indorayon was still calculating the figures.
The effeciency effort was neccessary following the firm's weak 1996 first six months results, he said.
Indorayon posted a net loss of 18.71 billion rupiah in the first six months of 1996 against a net profit of 89.25 billion rupiah in the same period last year.
It has an annual capacity of 60,000 tonnes of rayon fibre.Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.Telecommunications giant Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT) is firming up plans to restructure rates to eliminate the cross-subsidy between international and domestic long distance rates, Edgardo del Fonso, PLDT's chief finance officer, said on Wednesday.
"We plan to restructure rates so each segment of the business is viable on its own, Del Fonso told Reuters.
PLDT intends to submit its proposal to the government's National Telecommunciations Commission before the end of the year, he said, adding that the implementation of the restructured rates could coincide with the planned metering of local calls in the first or second quarter of next year.  
"We think that this is the best scenario for the industry. New entrants are not very keen to lay out lines" because of the low rates for national long distance calls versus overseas calls, Del Fonso said.
PLDT's average revenue is 2.10 pesos (8 cents) per minute on national long distance calls but $1.70 per minute on calls to the U.S., which comprise 35 percent of its overseas revenues.
In the first half of 1996, international long distance calls accounted for 58.8 percent of PLDT's revenues, while national long distance calls made up 14.5 percent.
Because of this, the competition is keen on getting a slice of the market for international calls, Del Fonso said.
"We're vulnerable to international calls. It is the source of subsidy for our local exchange, which is being eroded by the competition and the reduction in accounting rates," the PLDT official said.
The accounting rates refer to the share in revenues of PLDT with other foreign telecommunications companies for overseas calls.
- Manila newsroom (632) 841-8937Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS), owned by three Southeast Asian firms, said on Tuesday it aimed to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subdiary of telecommunications giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to anywhere in some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system will also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through the firm's gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system as the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations which will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with a paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said ACeS is currently considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.This is Reuters' 14th ex-Amsterdam air cargo market report. It will be issued regularly until an updated version is published at a later date.
Below are the current average ex-Amsterdam Dutch guilder air cargo rates per kg for 100 kg shipment with a voulme-to-weight ratio of six-to-one.
				 August 9	   vs	  July 11
			    UNITED STATES
AMS-JFK			 1.05			    1.10
AMS-LAX			 1.85			    1.95
AMS-CHI			 1.25			    1.25
			    ASIA-PACIFIC
AMS-HKG			 2.45			    2.40
AMS-SIN			 2.20			    2.10
AMS-NRT			 4.10			    4.10
AMS-TPE			 2.50			    2.45
AMS-SEL			 3.60			    3.60
AMS-KUL			 2.50			    2.40
			    MIDDLE EAST
AMS-DXB			 1.55			    1.60
AMS-BAH			 2.10			    2.10
AMS-MCT			 2.50			    2.55
AMS-AUH			 1.85			    1.90
			    LATIN AMERICA
AMS-MEX			 3.65			    3.60
AMS-BOG			 3.50			    3.50
AMS-SCL (CHILE)	     5.45			    5.40
AMS-RIO			 5.00			    5.00
			    AFRICA
AMS-JNB			 3.70			    3.75
AMS-NBO			 2.35			    2.40
* The rates quoted in the report were obtained by Reuter journalists on a confidential basis from a range of airlines, forwarders and smaller air cargo agents.
* All tariffs are quoted airlines.
* The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and indicative of current market activity. Ex-Amsterdam Asian boom continues, perishables lift U.S.
By Helen Hill
Amsterdam, Aug 9 (Reuter) - In the Netherlands the traditional summer holiday slump does not seem to have had its usual impact on the air cargo market, with most carriers reporting an unusually busy August so far.
Asian carriers, based in the Netherlands, are having an especially hectic time.
A Malaysia Airlines cargo executive, Frans Meeuwes, said: "We have not had the usual slow-down period because of the summer holidays. All the carriers seem to be flying full, it is not just MAS." Yields also seem to be creeping up.
Other carriers backed this comment up, Pim de Goederen, Japan Airlines cargo director in Amsterdam, described the Dutch-Japanese market as "tremendous". Currently, he added, JAL is flying full of flower bulbs destined for the Japanese market.
Japan re-opened its doors to Dutch bulbs on August 1. More than 1,500 tonnes of Dutch bulbs are being shipped monthly by the Japanese carrier on its McDonnell Douglas MD-11 service.
Vegetables destined to Japan are another strong market, said de Goederen. Paprikas are especially in demand and this has increased this year, he added.
"Flowers are not in the volumes they once were because the Japanese can now import more cheaply from South America or South Africa," he said.
Imports from Japan are increasing slightly, though the strength of the yen deters Dutch buyers, he added. This leaves the carrier with a heavy traffic imbalance.
Although JAL would like more capacity outbound from the Netherlands, the traffic imbalance makes the possible introduction of more capacity unlikely, said de Goederen.
Korean Air's cargo manager, Mike Zimmerman, said: "Currently Korean Air is very busy, mainly with perishables destined for the Japanese market."
Koreans have not been quite as keen as the Japanese on Dutch flowers and bulbs but there is an increasing interest, he said.
Korean Air operates to 12 Japanese destinations on a daily basis from Seoul. Rates to Korea and Japan are remaining firm at 4.10 Dutch guilders and 3.60 respectively.
Forwarders too, are happy with business to Asia. Emery Worldwide's Benelux general manager, Koos van Velzen, said business to destinations such as Taiwan, Korea, Japan and Malaysia, was performing very well.
Jos van de Woensel, managing director of Zygene, general sales agent for Vietnam Airlines in the Netherlands, said Vietnam will take several years to develop but the Dutch-Vietnam market offers good potential.
Machine tools, construction equipment and semi-finished garments are amongst current exports to Vietnam. Goods are completed in Vietnam and then flown back to Europe.
Even the U.S. market, usually one dogged by over-capacity and low rates, is seeing a slight upturn. However, rates remain low and the surge in traffic is largely due to the Dutch perishables market.
Carriers seem to be able to get relatively healthy rates to the U.S. as long as they are carrying perishables.
One forwarder said the passenger business has led to more rates pressure on the U.S. west coast as well which means it is possible to get rates below 1.95 Dutch guilders. New York remains low and rates of one guilder are not unknown.
United Airline's European cargo sales manager, Peter Chase, said July and August are proving very busy as the American market clamours for Dutch vegetables and flowers.
John Smith, European cargo manager with American Airlines, traffic out of the Netherlands to the U.S. had increased on last year's volumes which is again due to the perishables market.
Last year a drought in the Dutch market meant Dutch produce growers had to pump huge volumes of water into their crops which pushed up the price. The U.S. could then buy vegetables such as tomatoes cheaper elsewhere, he said.
"We have been consistently full and have an average load factor of 84 per cent throughout Europe," said Smith. For this reason American will be increasing its tariffs from September 1.
However, if companies were not involved so heavily in the perishables market,the Dutch-U.S. picture is not quite so good. Several said rates are still under a lot of pressure and some are definitely on the decline.
Many U.S. computer manufacturers are expected to launch new models into Europe in the fourth quarter. Forwarders are hopeful that this will boost trade again.
Onno Wiersma of Air Cargo Trader gsa for Emirates Airline representative in the Netherlands, commented that capacity that available for Dutch cargo to the Middle East is full.Overflow cargo is being diverted to Emirates aircraft in London and Frankfurt, he said.
Emirates and KLM operate a three-times-a-week Boeing 747-200 freighter from Amsterdam to Dubai. Perishables, machinery spares, medical supplies and printed matter are the main exports ex-Amsterdam.
Van Velzen of Emery said the Middle East market was being affected by the summer season but the company has recently sent a European representative to the Middle East and is looking forward to more business from the region.
Latin America is not generating as much excitement as it did a few weeks ago. Cargo manager of Varig Brazilian Airlines, Dirk Hazenoot, said the market was "stable not crazy".
"We expected the market to drop off in line with the European holiday season but it continued and even seems to be increasing."
He could not pinpoint the exact reason for it but added that there had been some changes in the South American import rules and the car industry ex-Brazil was also doing well.
Rates are stable and were not showing any signs of declining at the moment, said Hazenoot. On average rates to Rio are five Dutch guilders and it is expected to stay at that level.
Air Cargo Trader director, Wiersma, who as well as representing Emirates is gsa for Aero Mexico, Aero Peru and Fast Air, in the Latin American market said the market is currently stable, as are the rates.
"Mexico has stabilised again after the problems with its economy. Machinery and automotive parts make up the bulk of the moves."
Wiersma added that he hopes to develop an interline agreement between Aero Mexico and Emirates to improve connections from the Middle East to Mexico.
Van de Woensel of Zygene, gsa for Air Gabon said South African rates are under pressure and he fears that this will get worse when Martinair launches its freighter into the market.
Air Gabon's business is very seasonal although there is some airfreight being moved for the oil industry, he said.
Martinair has just been given the green light by the Dutch and South African civil aviation authorities for a freighter service to Johannesburg. Market sources say it is likely to start in October or November using an MD-11 freighter.
In Amsterdam, some industry insiders are worried about the impact that Martinair and Virgin, both having announced plans to go to South Africa in the autumn, will have on the rates.
A LOT spokesman said intra-European airfreight continues despite predictions that airfreight cannot compete with roadfreight. He said safety and speed are key issues.
"Many of the multinationals prefer to have their cargo delivered to a modern, bonded warehouse at the airport rather than see it trucked into central Warsaw. Trucks can sometimes wait for 48 hours at the German/Polish border and it is often safer to send cargo by airfreight." --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017Swedish forest products group MoDo reports for the six months ending June 30, 1996 compared to the same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  1,661 vs  2,607
 Sales					10,222 vs 11,605
 Operating profit incl one-off items 1,892 vs  2,965  
 Operating costs			   7,741 vs  8,157
 Non-recurring items			  11 vs     69
 Profit from other companies		 2 vs     13
 Depreciation				  602 vs    565
 Net financial items			 231 vs    358
 Estimated full tax			  543 vs    668
 Net profit				  1,118 vs  1,939
 Earnings per shr (crowns)	     12.60 vs     21.80
 Currency hedging effect	  CREDIT 948 vs    n/a
NOTE -- MoDo Skog AB is a Swedish forestry products group.
A Reuters poll of 14 analysts found the market was expecting MoDo to post a first half profit after financial items of 1.44 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS
21/08 Nedlloyd	   Q2	  -10.8    -20- 0	 19.0
22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas.Integration may be the buzz word when it comes to buying an investment bank, but it is still too early to tell how successful the recent wave of purchases has really been, analysts said on Thursday.
While Swiss Bank Corp and Dutch financial services giant Internationale Nederlanden Groep (ING) have performed well since buying SG Warburg and Barings Bank respectively, the true value will only be known in the long run.
The crunch will come when the banks which have bought their way into the market meet a downturn, analysts say. It won't be until then they feel the pinch of any excessive spending.
ING on Thursday followed SBC's example in not breaking out the results of its investment banking arm, formed when it bought British merchant bank Barings in March 1995, after it collapsed from losses run up by rogue trader Nick Leeson.
It announced an increase rease in half-year net profit, but in choosing initially not to reveal the ING Barings results, raised questions among some analysts about its performance.
ING said it was not possible to separate out the Barings factor as it had been integrated into the new business unit. It later said ING Barings was currently earning an annual net profit of about 100 million guilders and was aiming for annual profits of 200 million.
"They have fulfilled all of the expectations we have set," Aad Jacobs, executive board chairman, told Reuters in Amsterdam.
Some said there were valid reasons for not breaking out the figures. "It would be an accounting nightmare," said one.
ING's net profit in the six months to June 30 was 1.51 billion guilders, up from 1.1 million a year earlier. Pre-tax banking profit jumped 39.2 percent to 1.02 billion guilders.
First-half profits were boosted by strong growth in income from its securities trading operations but it warned profits would not grow as fast in the second half.
Some suggested that ING Barings was a relatively small piece in the overall ING jigsaw, which encompasses huge insurance and retail banking concerns.
But there has been intense interest in the performance of the group since it rescued Barings when the blue-blooded bank collapsed in February 1995 after Singapore trader Nick Leeson had run up trading losses totalling $1.4 billion.
As with the formation of SBC Warburg, the problems of integrating the two have been the subject of much speculation.
The defection of a large number of Latin American equities staff to Deutsche Morgan Grenfell added fuel to rumours of internal dissatisfaction.
But the situation over Latin America had stabilised, with some recent new hirings, and an expected loss of staff in South East Asia had not occurred, analysts said.
Matthew Czepliewicz, European banking analyst at Salomon Brothers in London, said a major cost for banks which had bought an investment banking arm was that of retaining the staff.
He said it was difficult to say how much of ING's rise in profits was due to healthy market conditions and how much to Barings, but warned favourable markets would not last forever.
"It would be foolish to extrapolate the gains we have seen over the next six to 18 months...people are riding a wave of euphoria at the moment, but that won't last forever," he said.
And on the whole, acquisitions such as that of Barings by ING, Kleinwort Benson by Dresdner Bank and Morgan Grenfell by Deutsche Bank had made sense, Czepliewicz added.Kenya's main sugar millers have started major revamping programmes to meet high demand at a time when imports are expected to slow, commodity analysts and sugar executives said on Thursday.
Senior commodity analysts said constant breakdowns and lower recovery rates at the factories made it impossible to meet crushing targets or to attain their full crushing capacities.
But the major constraint remained funding and management problems, they said.
Kenya's six mills, all located in western Kenya, have a production capacity of 530,000 tonnes. The seventh miller, West Kenya, is privately-owned and produces only 500 tonnes a year.
Total Kenyan sugar production is forecast at 420,000 tonnes this year against consumption of 560,000 tonnes.
Government figures show that sugar imports reached 244,400 tonnes in 1995 but commodity experts say taxes will cut that to around 80,000 tonnes this year.
Mumias Sugar Company, which accounts for 55 percent of the national output, is replacing its mills with diffusers at a cost of 4.5 billion shillings ($78.95 million) to raise cane crushing capacity to 8,000 tonne per day from the current 7,000 tonnes.
"Diffusers are modern and cut costs on repairs. They will be operational at end-December,"  said David Carter, general manager of the Mumias Sugar Company.
Augustine Sakwa, of the farmers' body Mumias Out-Growers Company, said maintenance had cut crushing capacity at the Mumias mill to 4,000 tonnes per day from 7,000 tonnes per day.
Sakwa added that nearly two million tonnes of cane was rotting in the Mumias fields because of transportation problems.
Financing for the diffusers was sought from internal sources and foreign investors, Carter told Reuters.
Sugar officials said South Nyanza Sugar Company was still negotiating for loans to expand its crushing capacity to meet an oversupply of cane in that area.
"To adequately address the supply situation, the factory plans to raise its crushing capacity to 3,000 tonnes of cane per day, up from the installed capacity of 2,500 tonnes per day," said an official at the state-run Kenya Sugar Authority.
Muhoroni Sugar Company's immediate programme was to install a turbine generator powered by steam from the boilers to generate an adequate supply of electricity.
Crushing there has been undermined by frequent power shortages. The  Kenya Power & Lighting Company, a marketing monopoly, refuses to give guarantees on supply.
Miwani Sugar Company, which continues to perform poorly three years after privatisation, was closed between May and July for a major rehabilitation. It is the only Kenyan factory with the ability to process white mill sugar for industrial use.
Although it has a capacity to produce 40 tonnes of refined white sugar per day, many industry observers believe that the factory is not capable of producing even half of that capacity.
The government still holds a 49 percent stake in Miwani.
The cash-strapped  Nzoia Sugar Company has requested credit from the Kenya Sugar Authority to pay growers who have refused to supply cane owing to outstanding payment problems.
There were no indication of plans at Chemelil Sugar.
-- Nairobi Newsroom ++254-2 330-261Poland's KGHM Polska Miedz copper combine plans to set up a subsidiary to turn its long-defunct copper mine Konrad into a mineral water bottling and water supply company, a KGHM official said on Thursday.
Boguslaw Kantor, director in charge of the water project, said that KGHM, based in the southwestern city of Lubin, expected to register the new company as Aqua Konrad SA in October.
"As a part of the restructuring of the Konrad mine, a new company will be set up with a share capital of 120 million zlotys and...we expect to register Aqua Konrad SA in October," Kantor told Reuters.
He said the new venture would be controlled by KGHM with small minority stakes held by the local communities of Polkowice and Lubin, which later would contribute their existing water supply systems to the company.
Kantor said the mineral water bottling plant, with annual production capacity of about six million bottles should be completed next year, while the water supply system should become operational in 2003.
He said the company was expected to reach annual sales of about 265 million zlotys with 80 percent of revenue generated by the bottling plant, which would support the less-profitable water supply project.
"The total investment is estimated at about 250 million zlotys," he said.
Kantor said the project, which was expected to start bringing profits within seven years, would allow KGHM to minimise the costs of phasing out the Konrad mine's operations, which now had to be maintained for safety reasons.
The venture would also create about 200 jobs for 600 workers now employed at the mine, he said.
Kantor said the full shut-down of the mine would take seven years and would cost KGHM 140 million zlotys.
KGHM, one of the world's largest copper producers, which had sales of 3.6 billion zlotys in 1995, is slated for a partial sell-off in the first quarter of 1997.
-- Warsaw Newsroom +48 22 653 9700Gruma SA, the world's largest producer of corn flour, plans to use almost all the $258 million it will receive in a new strategic partnership with Archer Daniels Midland Co. to pay down short term debt, the chief executive officer Eduardo Livas said Thursday.
Livas, speaking in a telephone interview with Reuters after Gruma linked with one of the world's largest agribusiness companies, said a substantial amount of the cash injection would be used to pay down the company's outstanding bank debts of $580 million.
"It will be $250 million or something like that....reducing our debt to around $320 million," Livas said.  
Livas said Gruma's average debt rates were around 10.5 percent, although he said the company would obviously looking to pay down more expensive short-term revolving debts, where the company had some rates in the 11 to 13 percent range.
Key elements to the strategic partnership, that the companies announced in a joint statement released earlier Thursday, are that ADM receives a 22 percent a stake in Gruma, Gruma receives a $258 million payment from ADM and that the companies will establish joint ventures in U.S. corn flour operations and Mexican wheat flour operations.  
Livas said the company realised it needed to increase equity to isolate Gruma from foreign exchange fluctuations and because interest expenses were proving substantial.
In 1995 interest expenses account for around 80 percent of the company's operating profit. "Most of our profits were going to finance expenses," he said, adding that the situation had improved in 1996 but that the ratio was still running at around 45 percent.
After discussions with advisors, who said Gruma could possibly raise between $100 and $120 million on markets via a share issue, Livas said the company opted for the alliance with ADM, especially considering difficult market conditions with issues being postponed and delayed.
Livas said the companies seek to quickly beef up the Mexican wheat milling side of the venture. ADM's two Mexican mills, one in Mexico City and one in Torreon, are running at around 20 to 30 percent of their total capacity of around 250,000 tonnes per year.
"We are going to focus first on utilizing the capacity and then expanding operations," Livas said. He added the companies sought to reach a market share of around 25 to 30 percent and milling around one million tonnes "within five to seven years."Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said on Thursday it could fulfil domestic demand for its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine in December when a new plant sterol processing unit is opened.
"We expect we will be able to fullfil the domestic demand in December," Raision Tehtaat information manager Jarkko Heino told Reuters by telephone.
Heino was asked to comment on local media reports that Raisio could increase output of its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine five-fold after the new unit to process its key ingredient, plant sterol, comes on stream.
"There is some misunderstanding. It is not true," Heino said. "But production will certainly increase." He declined to specify any amount.
Heino also declined to estimate when Raisio's production capacity would allow exports of Benecol.
"It will not happen this year, and nothing can be said about next year," Heino said.
Not processing capacity, but the lack of plant sterol has been the crucial bottle neck for Benecol production, he said.
"We expect we can solve it," he said.
He repeated Raisio's forecast that net sales of Benecol would be some 60 million markka this year, but declined to give any estimate for 1997.
-- Ilkka Virtanen, Helsinki newsroom +358-0-6805 0248Den Danske Bank on Thursday said that core earnings rose 43 percent in the first half of 1996 but the pace of growth was unlikely to last.
"In the second half of 1996, core earnings, including earnings from insurance operations, are not likely to reach the level recorded in the first six months, but core earnings for the year are expected to improve somewhat on 1995," it said.
Releasing half-year results slightly down on the same period last year, the bank, Denmark's biggest, said that earnings from currency and securities dealing fell by 35 percent.
"Group results for 1996 will be particularly influenced by year-end bond and share prices," it said, making no forecast.
It logged a 1996 first half pre-tax ordinary result of 2.381 billion crowns ($415.2 million), down from 2.537 billion during the same period last year but above the most optimistic of forecasts by a panel of analysts whose estimates ranged from 1.250 to 2.250 billion.
Core earnings were up to 1.793 billion crowns in the first six months of 1996 compared to 1.257 billion during the first half of 1995. Full-year 1995 core earnings were 2.785 billion crowns.
But profit from stocks and foreign exchange slid to 585 million crowns from 906 million in the same period last year.
Provisions were almost halved, to 341 million crowns from 661 million, but the bank quoted its chief executive as saying that they would be likely to rise again in the future.
"Knud Soerensen said that provisions could probably not be maintained at this low level through a normal economic cycle," the report said.
It added that although provisioning in the second half was already likely to show an increase over the first six months, the figure for the full year was expected to be lower than 1995's 1.254 billion.
The bank said it returned 15.6 percent on equity.
The Copenhagen stock market welcomed the report, sending the bank's share up 8.5 crowns to 404.5 after the announcement, although it later settled back to 402.00 crowns.
Soerensen later told Reuters that he aimed to increase group profitability further by a fresh round of cost-cutting, after triiming outgoings by 91 million crowns to 3.067 billion during the 1996 first half.
"We are a little careful about anticipating a continued fall in our costs but we will work with that aim," he said.
Staff cuts of almost 700 to a present force of 11,000 have helped bring about cost reductions.
Den Danske Bank's closest rival, Unidanmark, on Tuesday filed first half profits up 18 percent to 1.275 billion crowns, boosted by improved earnings from net interest, fees and lending. -- Copenhagen newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.735 Danish Crown)Finnish food and chemicals group Raision Tehtaat Oy said on Thursday it could fulfil domestic demand for its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine in December when a new plant sterol processing unit is opened.
"We expect we will be able to fullfil the domestic demand in December," Raision Tehtaat information manager Jarkko Heino told Reuters by telephone.
Heino was asked to comment on local media reports that Raisio could increase output of its cholesterol-reducing Benecol margarine five-fold after the new unit to process its key ingredient, plant sterol, comes on stream.
"There is some misunderstanding. It is not true," Heino said. "But production will certainly increase." He declined to specify any amount.
Heino also declined to estimate when Raisio's production capacity would allow exports of Benecol.
"It will not happen this year, and nothing can be said about next year," Heino said.
Not processing capacity, but the lack of plant sterol has been the bottleneck for Benecol production, he said.
"We expect we can solve it," he said.
He repeated Raisio's forecast that net sales of Benecol would be some 60 million markka this year, but declined to give any estimate for 1997.
-- Ilkka Virtanen, Helsinki newsroom +358-0-6805 0248Britain's Rentokil Group Plc on Thursday notched up a 35.6 percent rise in half-year profits and announced plans to change its name as it moves further away from its rat-catching past.
Rentokil made a pre-tax profit of 134.5 million pounds in the six months to June 30, just at the bottom end of analysts' expectations.
The name change follows the pest control-to-security group's victorious 2.1 billion pound ($3.25 billion) takeover of BET in April which brought a batch of new businesses under its control, including BET's Initial cleaning and washroom services brand.
The firm now aims to be called Rentokil Initial Plc.
Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm was not attempting to hide its famous Rentokil moniker. The name is sometimes seen as unsuitable now the firm has branched out far beyond pest control into things as diverse as tropical plants and hospital services.
"It is not an attempt to remove the Rentokil name. That name will still be very prominent," Thompson said in an interview.
He added Initial would be used to cover the enlarged group's cleaning, hospital services, textile services and security operations. "Rentokil will still be used where there is a need for an aggressive name to deal with a firm's problems," he added, citing pest control as an example.
Rentokil's turnover more than doubled to 842 million pounds from 400.9 million and shareholders will receive an increased dividend of 1.48 pence up from 1.23 pence.
The results include two months of trading from BET's businesses which contributed 344.3 million pounds to turnover and 15.1 million pounds to profits.
Thompson has been dubbed "Mr 20 Percent" by admiring investors for a track record of delivering 14 years of annual profits and sales growth of 20 percent.
He was under pressure to make good on his boast that this would continue even though Rentokil now had BET's businesses to tackle too.
But his reputation was intact on Thursday as Rentokil said in a statement that even excluding the BET buy, the firm's first-half turnover rose 24.1 percent to 497.7 million pounds and profit increased by 20.4 percent to 119.4 million pounds.
The firm's shares rose on the news to stand at 412 pence pence, up three pence in early morning trade.
Thompson said the integration of BET was going well and the merger of the two headquarters operations had gone well with BET's central staffing going down from 139 to 40. Thompson said this should produce a full year saving of 20 million pounds.
The two firms' cleaning businesses in the United States have already been put together and the European cleaning operations will not be far behind, Thompson said.
Plans for the integration of hospital services and hygiene and health care are also well advanced, he said.
During the bid Rentokil said it would consider the future of BET's plant services, conferencing and resort units.
But Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals. "We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.
Before the BET bid Rentokil was majority owned by Danish firm Sophus Berendsen A/S. The successful bid diluted the Danes' holding to 35.7 percent.
($1=.6460 Pound)German chemicals group BASF AG should achieve 1996 net and pre-tax profits slightly higher than year-earlier earnings, group chief financial officer Max Dietrich Kley said on Thursday.
In a speech for delivery at a news conference in London, Kley said that this forecast might prove very conservative, given the chance for an upturn in the German economy.  
"According to our current projection, we are assuming that both profit before taxes and net income after taxes for total 1996 will be slightly higher than in 1995," Kley said.
"If there would be an economic upswing in the second half of the year, which is expected by some of our competitors, surely our prediction of today is very conservative," he added.
BASF earlier reported a rise in first-half pre-tax profit to 2.323 billion marks from 2.025 billion, boosted by favourable currency developments and better performances at its pharmaceuticals, oil and gas and crop protection businesses.  
The crop protection activities will contribute less to second half profits due to the seasonal pattern in this sector, executive chairman Juergen Strube told reporters here.
The first half profit rise was achieved despite lower results in the chemicals business where prices have fallen sharply, partly due to customers running down their stocks.
But Strube, who noted rising orders in most business areas in July, said he believed the de-stocking process had stopped as economies were picking up.
"My overall impression is that de-stocking is coming to an end. Many customers will be enhancing their stock levels to accommodate for additional orders they are expecting," he said.
"The overall business climate in central Europe is improving," he told Reuters.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769National Grid, which runs the English and Welsh high voltage electricity transmission system, called on its one million investors to help convince electricity regulator Stephen Littlechild to moderate his price review.
Following gas regulator Clare Spottiswoode's concessions to British Gas on Wednesday after a consultation period, the Grid said shareholders now had a chance to officially object to plans that could wipe up to 1.2 billion stg off revenues.
"It's (Spottiswoode's final proposals) a confirmation that it is well worthwhile for everybody to argue their point of view," a company spokesman told Reuters.  
Littlechild is proposing a one-off cut in prices in April 1997 of 20-26 percent, followed by a further four percent reduction in each of the following three years.
The Grid says the proposals announced last week will hit the revenues by 1-1.2 billion pounds over the four-year period and it reiterated its warning in an open letter on Thursday that the plans were against shareholders' interests.
"(They) will adversely effect our ability to grow dividends at a satisfactory rate," the Grid stated in a statement.  
The company, which says its own efficiency programme over the period would mean the loss of around 500 jobs, said that "obviously" job losses would increase with harsh price curbs.
The company argues the the proposals go against the spirit of "incentive regulation". The Grid said it has already cut costs by 40 percent since 1991 and does not believe there are comparable opportunities for cost reductions in the future.
Another point of contention is how Littlechild has valued its assets. Littlechild proposes to set the asset value by using the group's share price on the day of its listing.  
But shares have sunk from a high of 209 pence to 174 pence, and the company says the regulator's interpretation reduces the transmission asset value by over one billion stg, thereby reducing National Grid's income which is based on that value.
"Of course we want customers to have lower bills," wrote chairman David Jefferies in the open letter to shareholders.
"However, we believe the balance in the regulator's current proposals is tilted against your interests..."
The Grid has until September 10 to argue its case.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4017British pest control to security group Rentokil Group Plc said on Thursday that it plans no major disposals from its acquired rival BET.
Earlier this year Rentokil won a fierce battle to buy BET for 2.1 billion stg and said that it would consider the future of BET's Plant Hire, Style and Resorts International unit.
But chief executive Clive Thompson told Reuters the firm had examined the whole group and now planned no major sales, though there might be some minor disposals.
"We have looked at those businesses and we believe that we can help them to grow and improve," he said.Caledonia Mining Corp said Thursday it has made a significant copper and cobalt discovery in Zambia.
The deposit is in Caledonia's Kadola licence area about 40 km south of Luanshya and the Zambian Copperbelt.
The company said 12 out of 15 shallow reverse circulation holes drilled across a geochemical anomaly have struck significant copper and cobalt oxide mineralization.
The company drilled an area measuring 2.5 km by about 0.5 km.
Five holes ended in oxidized mineralization, Caledonia said.
Caledonia has been exploring in Zambia for about two years and has made three cobalt oxide discoveries in its Nama licence area to the northwest of the Copperbelt.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Four Seasons Hotels Inc said on Thursday it will hold a special meeting of shareholders on October 3 at which holders will vote on an amendment to the articles of the company dealing with share capital.
Since 1986, the family of Isadore Sharp has controlled Four Seasons through holdings of multiple voting shares, now representing roughly 65 percent of the votes attached to the company's outstanding shares.
The company said to ensure that future growth does not does not significantly alter the present voting arrangement, it will propose a change in its share structure.  
The company is proposing that the existing multiple voting shares, which each carry 12 votes, be swapped for new variable voting shares, which carry a number of votes that increases proportionately as more subordinate voting shares are issued.
The variable voting shares would therefore continue to carry about 65 percent of the voting power no matter how many subordinate voting shares are issued, Four Seasons said.
This process would be subject to a ratification vote from a majority of subordinate voting shareholders other than Isadore Sharp and his associates every three years, beginning at Four Seasons' annual meeting in the year 2000.  
Four Seasons will also propose that its articles will be amended to provide that from the time the votes are adjusted, the dividend entitlement on the variable voting shares will decrease to 50 percent of the entitlement per share of the subordinate voting shares. The subordinate voting shares will be renamed limited voting shares.
The proposal is subject to regulatory approval as well as that of a majority of the votes cast by holders of subordinate voting shares, other than Isadore Sharp and his associates. It must also win the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by holders of the multiple voting and subordinate voting shares.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-81001996			    1995
 Shr	   loss	C$0.01     loss	C$0.10
 Net	   loss	    47     loss	   602
 Revs			14,200		    6,300
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Full name is ZCL Composites Inc.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau  (416) 941-81001996			    1995
 Shr			 C$0.01		   C$0.01
 Net			    110			 79
 Revs			21,001		   49,347
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.07		   C$0.19
 Net			    646		    1,795
 Revs			58,342		   76,800
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Full name is Atlantis Communications Inc
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Imasco Ltd said on Thursday that its 98-percent owned subsidiary CT Financial Services Inc has inked a deal to sell First Savings and Loan Association of Rochester to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo.
Marine Midland is a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.
Proceeds of the deal are expected to be more than C$935 million, and include the sale price of C$843 million plus a pre-closing dividend from First Federal.
Imasco said CT Financial will post a pre-tax gain of about C$320 million on the sale. The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is due to close in three to six months.  
"The North American financial services industry evolved quickly in recent years and CT Financial believes the best course of action is to sell First Federal and pursue its U.S. expansion in other ways," Imasco president and chief executive Brian Levitt said in a statement.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100-- Hilliard Lyons analyst Stephen O'Neil said Thursday he upgraded his rating on Res-Care Inc to a buy from hold following the recent decline in the stock price.
-- Res-Care shares were changed at 18-1/4.
-- "Fundamentals remain strong and we forecast 20 percent annual earnings growth for (Res-Care)," O'Neil said.
-- He added the stock is a good buying opportunity for long-term growth-oriented investors.
-- His two- to three-year price target is $27 a share.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr			  $0.32		    $0.14
 Net			  6,879		    2,919
 Revs		     105,030		  104,831
 Avg shrs		  21,417		   21,335
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Q2 1995 results after $218,000 or $0.01 a share extraordinary charge.  
Q2 1996 amortization $439,00 vs $3,799,000.
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	 $0.65     loss	 $0.16
 Net	 profit	13,956     loss	 2,638
 Revs		     210,335		  210,947
 Avg shrs		  21,404		   16,638
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Six-month 1995 results after $0.01 a share charge.
Six-month 1996 amortization $880,000 vs $16,441,000.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Shares of Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc rose 1-1/8 to 55-1/8 on Thursday after the company said fiscal 1996 earnings likely will be on the high side of its earlier range of projections of $2.50-$2.60 a share.
Pioneer added that results for the year could exceed that range.
Piper Jaffray analyst George Dahlman, who has projected fiscal 1996 earnings at $2.55 a share, said the company's latest announcement was "a pleasant surprise."  
Dahlman said Pioneer's soybeans and operations in Europe and South America have been particularly strong in fiscal 1996, which ends in August.
Pioneer also said Thursday that preliminary indications are that its North American seed corn market share will be about 44 percent, down from about 45 percent a year ago.
"We went on record (in January 1996) as saying they would lose market share," Dahlman said.
Pioneer also said its North American seed field yields are expected to meet expectations, although crop maturity is running behind normal because of cooler than normal weather in the Midwest. Yields also could be affected by an early frost.
Dahlman added the chance of an early frost is a concern for the seed crop. "We can't ignore that one," he said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787(In thousands, except per share amounts)
			    Three Months Ended	Year Ended
			   1996	  1995	 1996	  1995
 Net Sales	  $ 23,759    $ 29,713   $ 93,592   $ 119,439
Cost of Goods Sold
			  20,409(a)   19,672     64,379(a)   72,858
 R&D		     1,302	 1,597	6,149	 6,210
Restructuring and Other
   Special Charges   4,431	    --	4,431	    --
Total Operating
     Expenses	 13,932	11,063     42,999	44,854
Operating (Loss)
     Profit	  (10,582)     (1,022)   (13,786)	1,727
Net (Loss) Earnings
			  (7,390)(b)  (1,058)   (10,462)(b)     206
(Loss) Earnings Per
   Common Share:	(.65)(b)    (.09)	(.93)(b)     .02
(a) Includes special charges of $5.5 million related to revised business plan.
(b) Includes pre-tax restructuring and other special charges of $9.9 million.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr	profit	  $0.13     loss	 $0.31
 Net	profit	  2,761     loss	 4,956
 Revs			91,922		   80,215
 Avg shrs		  21,129		   15,889
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Full name is Culligan Water Technologies Inc.
Current Q2 includes $0.29/shr in reorganization charges and a $0.05 a share gain on an insurance settlement associated with fire at facility in Belgium in July 1993.  
Year-ago Q2 results reduced by $0.59 a share in reorganization charges.
Reorganization charges in both years reflect non-cash amortization charges related to reorganization of former parent.
		     SIX MONTHS
 Shr	 loss	   $0.03     loss	 $0.70
 Net	 loss	     587     loss	11,167
 Revs		     175,312		  148,982
 Avg shrs		  19,915		   15,889
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
NOTE: Current six-month results include $0.78 a share in reorganization charges and $0.05 a share insurance gain.
Year-ago six-month results include $1.17 a share in reorganization charges.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Swedish-British stainless steel producer Avesta Sheffield posts its results for the three months ending June 30, 1996, compared to the same period a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Pre-tax profit				228 vs  1,226
 Sales					 4,575 vs  6,127
 Operating profit before deprec	  322 vs  1,326
 Depreciation				  124 vs    128
 Operating profit after deprec	   198 vs  1,198
 Result before financial items	   206 vs  1,228
 Financial items		     CREDIT 22 vs	2 CHARGE
 Tax						73 vs    370
 Minorities					5 vs     10 CHARGE
 Net profit				    160 vs    846
 Earnings per shr (crowns)		1.01 vs	5.35
 Return on capital used (pct)	     11 vs     57
NOTE -- Avesta Sheffield AB lengthened its 1995 financial year to 15 months to tally with that of British Steel, which owns 51 percent of the company.
A Reuters poll of nine analysts forecast Avesta Sheffield to post a pre-tax profit of 229 million crowns for its first quarter of 1996/97.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Sweden's largest steel proucer, SSAB, posts its figures for the six months to June 30, 1996, compared with a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  1,486 vs   2,288
 Operating income			  9,406 vs   9,994
 Operating costs			   7,762 vs   7,509
 Depreciation				  362 vs     335
 Interest from other companies	    34 vs	50
 Financial items			     170 vs	88
 Minorities				     26 vs	41
 Tax					     403 vs     625
 Net profit				  1,057 vs   1,622
 Earnings per shr (crowns)		8.25 vs	12.65
NOTE -- SSAB is a Swedish steel producer.
A Reuters poll of 11 analysts found the market was forecasting an average profit before financial items of 1.42 billion crowns for the first half of 1996.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Swedish industrial gas concern AGA reports its results for six months to June 30, 1996, compared with the first half of 1995.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		    964 vs  1,117
 Sales					 6,409 vs  6,775
 Operating costs			   4,930 vs  5,113
 Capital gains			     1,794 vs    601
 Depreciation				  659 vs    656
 Net profit				  2,277 vs  1,381
 Paid tax					393 vs    230
 Deferred tax				   85 vs    102
 Minorities					3 vs	5
 EPS (crowns)				 9.37 vs	5.70
NOTE - Swedish gas company AGA was expected to post a profit after financial items of 1.09 billion crowns for the first half, according to a Reuters poll of 10 analyasts.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1017Swedish construction and real
estate group Skanska AB reports its results for the six months
to June 30, 1996, compared to a year ago.
					(million crowns unless stated)
 Profit after fin items		  2,377 vs   1,508
 Order intake			     23,810 vs  19,721
 Sales					22,881 vs  18,856
 Operating profit after deprec	   696 vs   1,689
 Operating costs			  22,056 vs 17,321
 Depreciation				  603 vs    498
 Net interest items			  462 vs    441
 Exchange differences		CHARGE 16 vs     15 CHARGE
 Gain on share sales/participation   1,755 vs	4
 Other financial items		CREDIT 2 vs	4 CHARGE
 Tax					     592 vs    407
 Minorities				    133 vs    175
 Net profit				  1,601 vs    926
NOTE -- Skanska AB is a Swedish construction and real estate company.
A Reuters poll of eight analysts found the market was expecting Skanska to post a profit after financial items of 3.10 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-7001017Six months to June 30, 1996.
					  (million crowns unless stated)
 Operating profit			 2,474  vs 1,692
 Profit before loan losses	    3,379  vs 3,042
 Loan losses				  905  vs 1,350
 Interest income			 22,865  vs 24,060
 Interest costs			  17,406  vs 18,420
 Commission income			1,304  vs    902
 Profit, financial transactions	 592  vs    264
 Other income				 476  vs    564
 Total income			     7,831  vs  7,370
 Admin costs				3,771  vs  3,685
 Depreciation				 517  vs    605
 Deprec of group goodwill		  87  vs    nil
 Other operating costs		     77  vs     38
 Total costs				4,452  vs  4,328
 Profit before loan losses	    3,379  vs  3,042
 Interest net			     5,043  vs  5,204
 Shr (crowns)				6.57  vs   5.31
 Loan loss percentage		     0.5  vs    0.7
NOTE -- Full name of commercial bank is Sparbanken Sverige AB. Analysts polled by Reuters expected an operating profit of 2.52 billion crowns.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006The governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway, part owners of Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) would consider reducing their holdings in the carrier to increase private ownership, a senior Danish transport ministry official told Reuters on Thursday.
"This is a very long term concept tied to the purchase of new aircraft and the three governments would insist on holding on to at least 35 percent of shares in each SAS unit in the three countries," the official said.
"This would ensure that the governments could block any major changes in SAS. The governments are prepared to surrender their majority shareholdings if it is necessary to attract new capital for buying new planes," he said.
"Given European Union monopoly policies and (national) budgetary considerations, the Scandinavian governments are hardly interested in increasing their shareholding in SAS. They would prefer to allow the airline to seek funding through a possible share issue on the private market," he concluded.
Media reports say that SAS will in the coming years have to consider investing in some 50 new aircraft for European routes and an unspecified number for intercontinental services.
SAS is jointly owned by the governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway and private investors with the three Scandinavian states currently holding 50 percent of shares in each of the three local SAS units.
Sweden has a three-sevenths stake in SAS, with Denmark and Norway each holding two-sevenths.
--Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33969652Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Life assurance		    2,210	vs	   1,458
 Non-life insurance		  649	vs	     656
 UNI Storebrand ASA		   97	vs     minus 151
 Storebrand Bank AS	   minus 14	vs	     n/a
Eliminations/
 other companies	     minus 216	vs		13
 Operating result		  2,756	vs	   1,990
Life policy holder's
 portion			     1,896	vs	   1,207
 Group result			  860	vs	     783
NOTE -- Full name of Norway's largest insurance company is UNI Storebrand ASA. Seven analysts polled by Reuters forecast the company would book a first-half group result of 683 million crowns on the average.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Analysts' estimates of Dutch company earnings to be reported in the week beginning August 19:
DATE--COMPANY---------PERIOD----CONSENSUS--RANGE-------PVS 22/08 Aegon		H1	  690.1    679-699     614.7
22/08 ING		  H1	 1517.0   1460-1560   1184
22/08 Nutricia	   H1	   86.5   78.6-102	64.2
22/08 Intern. Muller   H1	   44.3     41-46.5     40.3
23/08 KPN		  H1	 1223.0   1210-1236   1114
23/08 Boskalis	   H1	   30.1     20-37.3     41.4
Earnings figures refer to net profit before extraordinary items in millions of guilders unless otherwise stated.
Estimates contributed by: Amstgeld, Bangert Pontier, BZW, Delta Lloyd, Generale Bank, ING Barings, Kempen & Co, MeesPierson, Van Lanschot, Rabo/IRIS, and Strating.
Banks and brokers interested in contributing to this regular Reuters survey can contact the Amsterdam newsroom on +31-20-504-5000 or fax their forecasts to +31-20-504 5040.
For the week of August 26-30 we need forecasts for IHC Caland, HBG, VNU, Heidemij, BolsWessanen, KBB, Hagemeyer, Fortis, Stork and Frans Maas.Six months to June 30
				   (millions of crowns unless stated)
 Operating revenue	    6,722     vs	  5,859
 Operating costs		4,966     vs	  4,573
 Depreciations		    563     vs	    400
 Operating result	     1,193     vs	    886
Result before minorities
 and tax			  1,042     vs	    854
 Pre-tax result		 1,044     vs	    857
 After-tax result		 760     vs	    617
NOTE - Full name of Norway's biggest forestry company is Norske Skogindustrier ASA. Eight analysts polled by Reuters forecast a first-half operating result of 1,181 million crowns. The company said it expected second half results to be weaker partly because of the weakening of the markets for SC and newsprint.
--Oslo newsroom +47 22 42 50 41Six months to June 30 (in millions of marks unless stated)
    Group net profit			1,370   vs 1,196
    Group pre-tax profit		  2,323   vs 2,025
    Group sales excluding taxes	 24,267  vs 24,057
NOTE - Analysts polled by Reuters had predicted on average a 17 percent rise in pre-tax profit with estimates ranging between 2.27 billion and 2.38 billion marks. Sales were forecast to increase by three percent on average excluding gas and mineral oil taxes, with estimates ranging between 23.9 billion and 26.4 billion marks.
    Parent pre-tax profit		 1,156   vs 1,161
    Parent sales excl taxes	     10,389  vs 11,336
--Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525The financial group connected to Investicni a Postovni Banka a.s. (IPB) said on Thursday that it had taken control over the Czech glass fibre producer Vertex a.s. .
Spokesman for IPB investment arm Prvni Investicni, Tomas Kopriva, told Reuters that the IPB Group had placed its chosen directors on Vertex's board by controlling more than 51 percent of the voting shares present at an extraordinary shareholders meeting in the eastern Czech town of Litomysl.  
"Altogether more than 51 percent voted with us," Kopriva said.
IPB has been battling for the control of Vertex with another large Czech banking group Komercni Banka a.s. .
In June and July analysts said both groups had been amassing shares in Vertex through the secondary market, helping to push the stock's price over 7,000 crowns.
The stock was down 251 crowns from Wednesday's close at 4,783 at the Prague Stock Exchange's daily fixing, prior to the results of the general meeting.
-- Radek Narovec, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003The Slovak National Property Fund (NPF) on Thursday said it would amend the recent sale of a major stake in oil and gas storage firm Nafta a.s. to include "at least" a 10 percent stake for company employees.
"The (NPF) will propose an amendment to the contract with Druha Obchodna a.s., the new owner of 45.9 percent of Nafta, stipulating the firm will have to sell a stake representing at least 10 percent of Nafta's basic capital to Nafta employees," Oto Balogh, NPF spokesman, told Reuters.  
The NPF is the state privatisation agency charged with selling state property.
Earlier on Thursday, NPF President Stefan Gavornik told the official Slovak radio that he expected the NPF presidium, the agency's executive body, to approve the amendment to contract at its meeting on August 27.
The NPF raised eyebrows at the beginning of August when it sold its entire holdings in Nafta to the private, and little- known firm Druha Obchodna for 500 million crowns, far below market value.  
Analysts have said that the parcel of shares had a market value of some 3.2 billion crowns.
Nafta shares closed at 2,000 crowns on BSE on Wednesday while the NPF sale price averaged about 400 crowns per share.
Nafta was originally included on a government list of strategic companies which would not be privatised at all, or in which the government will retain a veto right over the key decisions.
Despite the sale, the government continues to hold the veto right its so-called "golden share", which was approved by a Nafta shareholders' meeting this spring.
-- Peter Laca, Bratislava Newsroom, 42-7-210-3687The Budapest Stock Exchange (BSE) confirmed floor traders' information and said trading in the shares for hotel chain Danubius was suspended for Thursday.
"The reason is a news in daily newspaper Nepszabadsag which said that (Hungary's state privatisaton agency) APV sells HungarHotels to Danubius," a BSE spokeswoman told Reuters.
The bourse official said Danubius itself could not confirm the news.
"At this moment one cannot decide whether the news is true or not and this seriously influences the price of the share," she said. "That's why we suspended it for today."
Danubius was unable to confirm the news of the tender decision to Reuters.
Nepszabadsag reported today that the board of APV declared Danubius as the winner for the privatisation tender of Hungaria Szalloda Rt (former HungarHotels) at its meeting on Wednesday.
According to Nepszabadsag Danubius submitted the highest bid, offering more than eight billion forints for the chain which has 14 hotels.
Including the sale of Danubius employee shares APV will raise 8.8 billion forints, Nepszabadsag said.
APV will hold its regular press conference later today.
	 -- Emese Bartha, Budapest newsroom (36 1) 266 2410Alliance Communications Corp said on Thursday it sold an additional 150,000 class B non-voting shares to the underwriters in its offering that closed August 7.
The shares were pruchased after underwriters exercised their over-allotment option at US$8.50 per share.
With the additional shares, Alliance said it has issued a total of 2,970,000 class B shares under the offering for proceeds of US$25.2 million.
-- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-8100Takeover target Arequipa Resources Inc said Thursday it has not been approached by any other bidders since it accepted a C$30 a share bid from Barrick Gold Corp.
"The only reason I told Canada AM that I felt there was still a possibiity of a higher bid is that I continue to believe the company has great assets which should be valuable to another number of major international mining companies," Arequipa president Catherine McLeod said in an interview.
"But we've not been seriously approached by any other bidder since the date of our agreement with Barrick."  
On Thursday morning, McLeod told Canada AM, a morning television show on CTV, there was a 40 to 50 percent chance of another bid appearing on Thursday or Friday.
McLeod clarified the comment later in the day.
"Sometimes a surprise bid comes up at the last minute. We're not expecting one particularly," she said.
"It's always a serious possiblity but we have not been approached by anyone."
A week ago, Arequipa accepted Barrick's C$30 a share offer.  
All Arequipa directors, including McLeod, and some shareholders have agreed to tender about 23 percent of shares under a lock-up agreement with Barrick.
Arequipa has not had a change of heart, McLeod said.
"We're happy with Barrick," she said. "We think it's a terrific company. We can't think of any better gold company to develop our assets."
Under Arequipa's deal with Barrick, Barrick will receive a fee of C$18 million if there is a rival bid of at least C$31.50 a share that Barrick does not match.
Analysts have said only a few companies could afford to match Barrick's offer, which gives shareholders a choice of all cash or a mix of cash and shares.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Dominion Bond Rating Service said on Thursday it confirmed all the ratings of CT Financial Services Inc including its convertible debentures at AA (low) with a stable trend, after its deal to sell a U.S. unit.
CT Financial's ratings will remain at Pfd-1 for its senior preference shares, Pfd-1 (low) for its non-cumulative preference shares and R-1 (middle) for its short-term debt instruments.
CT Financial sold its First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc.  
DBRS said the C$935 million price is "favorable." Also, CT Financial's decision to enter the U.S. market in another fashion will not likely affect its bottom line. DBRS said "... key capital ratios will remain favorable under any scenario." CT Financial is 98 percent owned by Imasco Ltd, which is 41.5 percent owned by B.A.T Industries Plc.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Westmin Resources Ltd and Atna Resources Ltd said Thursday that their Wolverine metals deposit in Canada's Yukon territory continues to expand to the northwest.
A recently drilled hole shows a second high-grade intersection on the property, the companies said.
The results show 3.91 grams of gold per tonne over a length of two metres with a true thickness of 1.7 metres. Silver, copper, lead and zinc were also present.
A second hole struck a thicker intersection of mineralization, the companies said.
The results show a true thickness of 4.9 metres, with 1.60 grams of gold per tonne over 5.7 metres. Silver, copper, lead and zinc were also struck.
The companies will continue to drill in the area, they said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-81001996		     1995
 Shr			 C$0.35		   C$0.31
 Net			  3,315		    2,908
 Revs			96,537		   87,751
			  6 MONTHS
 Shr			 C$0.52		   C$0.45
 Net			  4,866		    4,221
 Revs		     172,281		  159,621
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Teck Corp said Thursday it expects to determine within the next few days the exact amount of its gain on its 10.4 percent stake in Diamond Fields Resources Inc, which was bought out by Inco Ltd.
Teck chief financial officer John Taylor said the mining company would likely issue a news release in the next few days. The gain would be booked in the third quarter. Teck acquired its stake in Diamond Fields for C$108 million.
Inco closed Wednesday its C$4.3 billion takeover of Diamond Fields. Teck said Thursday it would issue up to C$280 million of debentures exchangeable into Inco common stock.  
Under terms of the Diamond Fields takeover, Teck will receive a mix of securities and cash including 5.5 million to 5.8 million Inco common shares.
Taylor said calculating Teck's gain must await an announcement from Inco on the exact mix of cash and securities that shareholders will receive. Teck elected to receive the maxmimum cash possible under the offer but the exact ratios depend on balancing what all shareholders choose, he said.
Inco is expected to me an announcement on final terms soon.
-- Reuters Vancouver Bureau (604) 664-7314The president of takeover target Arequipa Resources Ltd said Thursday there is a good chance another company will take on Barrick Gold Corp with a rival takeover bid for the junior gold company.
"I would say there's probably a 40 to 50 percent chance of another bid appearing, and it probably will be today or tomorrow," Arequipa president Catherine McLeod told Canada AM, a morning television show on CTV.
Arequipa has already accepted a C$30 a share offer from Barrick.  
All Arequipa directors, including McLeod, and some shareholders have agreed to tender about 23 percent of shares under a lock-up agreement with Barrick.
Under the deal, Barrick will receive a fee of C$18 million if there is a rival bid of at least C$31.50 a share that Barrick does not match.
Analysts have said ony a handful of companies would be able to top Barrick's bid, which offers Arequipa shareholders all cash or a mix of cash and shares.
Vancouver-based Arequipa's main asset is the Pierina gold deposit in Peru. Experts have speculated the deposit may have potential reserves of up to 12 million ounces of high-quality gold. But they noted exploration is still in its early stages.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100Canadian Bond Rating Service said on Thursday that it reaffirmed all the ratings of CT Financial Services Inc, after its agreement to sell First Federal Savings and Loan Assocation of Rochester.
The agency said the rating outlook for CT Financial is stable.
CT Financial, whose Canada Trust is a major player in Canada's banking industry, is 98 percent owned by Imasco Ltd, which is 41.5 percent owned by B.A.T Industries Plc.  
CT Financial said on Thursday it agreed to sell First Federal to Marine Midland Bank of Buffalo, which is owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, for more than C$935 million.
CBRS said the favourable ratings largely reflect the financial strengths of CT Financial's Canada Trust unit -- a strong market position in consumer banking, good profitability with relatively stable historical trend, excellent asset quality, strong capital levels and liquidity position and a well hedged balance sheet.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434Bema Gold Corp and Arizona Star Resource Corp said Thursday they have completed a deal for a C$14 million private placement in Arizona Star.
Bema said it will purchase one million common shares of Arizona Star at C$14 per share.
The money will be used to fund Arizona Star's portion of more deep diamond drilling on the Cerro Casale gold and copper porphyry deposit at the Aldebaran property in Chile.
More drilling results from this deposit are expected within two weeks, the companies said.  
The property is 51 percent owned by Arizona and 49 percent by Bema.
Recent drilling at Cerro Casale has confirmed the existence of a major gold copper deposit beneath the existing two million ounce oxide gold deposit which is in the final feasibility stage.
Arizona Star said it also plans to use some of the proceeds to fund driling on other parts of the Aldebaran property in October.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100MDC Communications Corp, after reporting a second-quarter loss, said on Thursday it still expected substantial year-over-year gains in earnings for 1996.
The marketing and communications firm said, however, that third-quarter results would be no better than break even. MDC said the third quarter was traditionally its weakest period.  
"Our major gains are budgeted for the fourth quarter and we expect to achieve them," MDC President Miles Nadal said in a statement. "This will result in substantial year over year growth in earnings per share for the fiscal year ended December 31."
MDC reported a second quarter loss of C$0.04 per share against a profit of C$0.10 per share in the year ago period.
The company said the loss in the second quarter was due to seasonality of Regal Greetings & Gifts sales and one-time costs from the integration of House of Questa.
	  -- Reuters Toronto bureau 416-941-81001996			    1995
 Shr	   loss	C$0.04   profit	C$0.10
 Net	   loss	   556   profit	 1,012
 Revs			45,918		   39,354
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	 profit	C$0.12   profit	C$0.17
 Net	 profit	 1,265   profit	 1,774
 Revs			93,477		   82,972
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)
Note: Earnings in 1995 include a C$2.3 million gain.
The gain resulted from the renegotiation of a major premises lease.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Canada's largest department store retailer, Hudson's Bay Co, forecast better results in the year's second half as the retailer expands and consumers open their wallets.
Chief executive George Kosich said "I fully expect that the combination of increased sales due to growing consumer confidence as well as to our ongoing expansion activities, improved margins and the benefits arising from the consolidation of functions, will lead to improved results in both Zellers and the Bay over the balance of the year."  
"In our industry results of the first half of the year cannot be considered indicative of the outlook for the all important second half," Kosich said in a statement.
Hudson's Bay released its second-quarter results, which plunged from a year earlier. Profit for the period ended July 31 dropped to C$0.01 a share versus C$0.10.
ScotiaMcLeod senior vice-president Fred Ketchen said Canada's sluggish economy contributed to the poor results. "It is disappointing to see it," Ketchen said. "Canadians are just not spending their money."  
"I think it represents quite a challenge to the Bay," Ketchen added.
Hudson's Bay said it had compared this year's figures for its department store chain The Bay to "abnormally high sales in May last year as the Bay took advantage of numerous events to celebrate the company's 325th anniversary."
In the second half, the Bay will open one new store and finish a major expansion. Discount chain Zellers will open five new stores, finish 10 expansions and close three outlets.
The second half should bring more consumer spending, it said.  
"The retail climate should benefit over the balance of the year from the combination of low rates of interest and inflation and from tax reductions for many customers," it said.
Canada's major banks chopped prime lending rates to 5.75 percent from 6.0 percent, effective Friday, after the Canadian central bank dropped short-term interest rates to 4.25 percent today.
It was the seventh time the Bank of Canada dropped rates this year. Prime rates are now at their lowest level since late March in 1994.
Ontario's government has also promised to slash personal income tax rates by 30.2 percent over three years in its latest budget.
-- Lydia Zajc, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Q2 ended July 31
				1996			    1995
 Shr	 profit	C$0.01   profit	C$0.10
 Net	 profit	   374   profit	 6,063
 Revs		   1,376,281		1,396,793
	   6  MONTHS
 Shr	   loss	C$0.90     loss	C$0.15
 Net	   loss	53,045     loss	 8,640
 Revs		   2,570,408		2,622,755
(All data above 000s except per share numbers)  
Note: Six months' figures in 1996 include a C$64 million restructuring loss.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100Inco Ltd was down slighty on heavy volume in the first hours of trading Thursday, as investors shifted their positions after the closing of the Diamond Fields Resources takeover.
Inco's stock was down C$0.85 to C$44.90 in trading of 780,000 shares. In New York, the shares were unchanged at 32-3/4 in trading of 498,000.
"All of a sudden you've got a lot more shares and people are probably flipping it," said mining analyst Bruce Reid with Yorkton Securities.  
On Wednesday, Inco finally closed its C$4.3-billion takeover of Diamond Fields and its massive nickel resources at Voisey's Bay, Labrador.
Inco has created a new class of shares to allow Diamond Fields shareholders to participate directly in the profits of the deposit.
Some Inco shareholders may still fear earnings dilution because of the takeover, but most of them have already sold their stock, Reid said.
-- Reuters Toronto Bureau 416 941-8100-- Donaldson Lufkin analyst Krishna Shankar said SDL Inc continues to have difficulties with manufacturing yields in its semiconductor chip production in the current quarter, according to research provided to Reuters.
-- As a result, Shankar expects the current third quarter's revenues to be flat sequentially at $22 million, with earnings of $0.21 per share, the report said.
-- He maintained his outperform rating on the stock.
-- The analyst said the company's third quarter product shipments and gross profit margins have come under pressure due to higher production costs, according to the research.  
-- However, he warned that the margin assumptions in his current quarter estimates could be aggressive "given that the magnitude of the problems and their effect on operating results will not be known until later in the quarter."
-- The DLJ analyst maintained his fiscal year 1996 revenue estimate of $88 million and earnings estimate of $0.80 per share and the "conservative" estimates for fiscal 1997 of $115 million and $1.15 per share, the report said.
-- SDL stock tumbled as much as 13 points to a low of 15 in morning trading. By early afternoon the stock stood at 17-7/8, down 10-1/8 points since Wednesday's close.  
-- Shankar was not available for comment on the research report.
-- The manufacturing yield problem was discussed in the company's recent 10-Q filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the analyst said in the report.
-- Shankar may consider raising his fiscal 1997 earnings estimate, depending on the speed of capacity additions and if demand for its products by telecommunications and cable companies remains strong, he wrote.  
-- The analyst maintained a 12-month target price on the stock based on a 30 times multiple of his calendar 1997 earnings estimate of $1.15 per share, according to the report.
-- He continued to project a five-year secular earnings per share growth rate of 35 percent for SDL, which he said was the dominant maker of high-power semiconductor lasers and integrated optoelectronics, with a 60 percent world share.
-- The analyst's comments coincide with a move by Cowen & Co analyst Drew Peck to cut his 1996 per-share earnings estimate on SDL by $0.13 to $0.68 and to lower his 1997 estimate by $0.04 to $1.00, according to the brokerage.
-- DLJ was the underwriter of a recent offering of SDL stock and of previous share offerings by the company. Cowen was a co-manager of the recent offering.
-- Eric Auchard, New York Newsdesk 212-859-1736-- EVEREN Securities Inc said Thursday it lowered its fiscal fourth quarter estimate for Nordson Corp by $0.02 a share to $1.00.
-- Fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1997 earnings estimates remain unchanged at $2.90 and $3.35 a share, respectively.
-- Nordson recently reported fiscal third quarter earnings of $0.65 a share, versus $0.80 last year, which was above EVEREN's estimate of $0.62.
-- EVEREN maintains a market performer rating on the stock with a six-month price target of $50 a share, down from $57 earlier, and an 18-month target of $58, down from $62.
-- Nordson shares rose 1-1/4 to 50-3/4.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Mattel Inc chief executive officer Jill Barad said sales of toys based on Walt Disney Co's "Hunchback of Notre Dame" film would reach $100 million, falling short of "Poconotas" toy sales in 1995.
"It's true that 'Pocohontas' will outsell 'Hunchback,' although we'll do about $100 million in 'Hunchback sales,'" the recently named chief executive told Reuters. Mattel's 1995 revenue from "Pocahontas" was $140 million, analysts said.
Still, Mattel's sales of Disney-related toys this year will top the 1995 total of $450 million, Barad said.Northwest Airlines Inc said Thursday it signed a cooperative marketing agreement with Mahalo Air which will include code-sharing on flights in the Honolulu-West Maui and Honolulu-Molokai markets.
The code-share service with Mahalo, a Hawaii-based carrier, will be effective September 15. Northwest has an existing cooperative agreement with Hawaiian Airlines Inc.
Northwest's flight code will be published and sold on Mahalo's daily service between Honolulu and Kapalua, West Maui, and between Honolulu and Molokai.
The code-share service is valid for connections at Honolulu to and from cities served by non-stop Northwest flights, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Minneapolis/St. Paul and, in Japan, Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787General Motors Corp said Thursday the suggested price for its OnStar vehicle technology system will be $895 plus dealer installation and a service fee of $22.50 per month.
OnStar is available exclusively on 1997 front-wheel-drive Cadillacs. It added that service fee is guaranteed for the next two years.
The company estimated the daily cost for both the OnStar service and individual cellular phone charges will be under $1.50 or about the equivalent of a gallon of gasoline.
OnStar integrates on-board advanced vehicle electronic architecture with Global Positioning System Satellite technology and a state-of-the-art cellular phone, General Motors said.
Onstar's services include automatic notification of front air bag deployment, emergency service, theft detection and vehicle tracking, remote door unlock, roadside assistance with location and route support.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Kellwood Co said Thursday its sales for the first quarter ended July 31 declined four percent to $327.4 million from $340.6 million due to lost volume from operations that were closed or sold.
Volume was also lower from businesses that were consolidated and restructured in the second half of the last fiscal year.
It added that consumer demand for apparel remains relatively weak.
"Kellwood has responded by taking a number of steps to improve our competitive position during a soft retail ennvironment," chairman William McKenna said in a statement. "These steps include reducing overhead, more effective sourcing, and a better product mix."
He added that Kellwood, which makes and markets apparel, also has several programs and initiatives that are expected to show results in the fiscal third quarter.
"As the second half of fiscal year 1997 unfolds, we should increasingly benefit from the refocused merchandising and sourcing strategies in the restructured business units," McKenna said.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		 $0.125		    $0.125
 Pay		    Oct 10
 Record		Sept 13
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Brooks Fiber Properties Inc said Thursday it would invest more than $60 million to build and operate three fiber optic networks in the White Plains, N.Y., San Mateo, Calif., and Springfield, Mo., areas.
The networks will operate under the name of Brooks Fiber Communications, competing with services offered by NYNEX Corp, Pacific Telesis Group's Pacific Bell and SBC Communications Inc's Southwestern Bell.
With the three new systems, Brooks Fiber will have 29 U.S. networks in operation or under construction.
Brooks Fiber plans to be in 30 markets by the end of 1996 and at least 50 by the end of 1998.
Construction of the networks will begin immediately, with services expected to be offered in the first quarter of 1997.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.15		     $0.15
 Pay		   Sept 16
 Record		 Sept 3
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Ontrack Data International Inc said Thursday it filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the sale of 2.7 million shares of common stock.
Shares to be sold include 2.0 million from the company and 700,000 by selling shareholders.
Ontrack said it expects the share offering to be priced at $10 to $12 a share. After the offering, it will have 9,602,674 shares outstanding.
The shares will be sold through an underwriting group led by Montgomery Securities, Dain Bosworth Inc and Volpe, Welty and Co.
Ontrack, which offers data recovery services, said it will grant underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional 405,000 shares to cover any over-allotments.
The company said it will use proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Best Products Co Chairman and Chief Executive Daniel Levy said Thursday he expected the company's second-quarter results to be similar to the $34.6 million loss posted in the first quarter.
He also told Reuters before the retailer's annual meeting that the second quarter could be better than the first quarter ended May 4. "We could do even better," he said.
The second-quarter results are expected to be released in September.  
Levy said seeking bankruptcy protection was not under consideration. Best emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June 1994 after 3-1/2 years.
"Bankruptcy is always possible, particularly when you lose what we are going to lose in the first half of this year," Levy said. "But this is not something we are striving to do."
The Richmond-based retailer lost $95.7 million in the fiscal year ended February 3. That was the second-largest loss in the company's history.
Levy said that Best planned to open two new stores this fall. The company announced in March that it was closing seven stores and backing out of nine new lease agreements. At the time, Best said it did not plan to open any new stores this fall. It currently operates 169 stores in 23 states.
For last year's second quarter, which ended July 29, 1995, Best posted a loss of $7.1 million, or $0.23 per share, on sales of $311.9 million.Quarterly
		   Latest		    Prior
 Amount		  $0.07		     $0.07
 Pay		    Sept 9
 Record		 Aug 29
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-87871996			1995
 Shr primary		$0.27		    $0.27
 Shr diluted		$0.27		    $0.26
 Net			  5,818		    5,644
 Revs		     327,435		  340,625
 Avg shrs primary	21,327		   21,132
 Avg shrs diluted	21,506		   21,505
(All Data Above 000s Except Per Share Numbers)
Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787Gruntal & Co has moved to distance itself from an essay on airline safety written by its airline analyst Steve Lewins.
"This was not authorized or approved by Gruntal, nor does Gruntal endorse the opinions and statements expressed by Mr Lewins," Randy Bradley, Gruntal senior vice president and executive assistant to the chairman, said in a brief statement dated August 21.
Lewins told Reuters the essay dealt with airline safety and offered recommendations for improved safety and security in the skies.  
The essay was not immediately available to Reuters.
Lewins declined to give details about the essay but said it was a personal assessment and was not related to his role as Gruntal's airline analyst.
Lewins also said he agreed "wholeheartedly" with Gruntal's statement and, in fact, had suggested it be written.
Bradley's statement said Gruntal has begun an investigation "and will take all appropriate actions." Bradley said Lewins continued to be employed by Gruntal, adding only, "We are reviewing the situation."
He declined to elaborate.Shares in British pharmaceutical firm Zeneca Group set a record on Thursday amid renewed rumours Swiss giant Roche Holdings AG was nursing a takeover bid but the shares fell back as analysts dismissed the chatter.
"It would have to be a very attractive deal for (Zeneca's) shareholders," Kleinwort Benson analyst Steve Putman said of a possible bid. "I think it's unlikely for now. Whether the company disappears in two years time is a different story."
The worldwide drug industry has undergone dramatic consolidation over the last two years, making any medium size company a potential takeover candidate.
But a hostile bidder would have to pay as much as 20 pounds per share for Zeneca, said Steve Abbott, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Laing.
"I don't think there will be a hostile bid. Zeneca might find a partner to merge with in a few years time and the implied price (of Zeneca's shares) after a friendly merger could be around 1750p," Abbott said.
"You could argue that Zeneca is trading at the top end of fair value," added Putman. "The company should deliver at least 12 percent earnings growth for the next five years ... and that would put it in line with U.S. drug companies."
Putman figures 18 times 1997 earnings is close to fair value for Zeneca's shares. He's forecasting pretax profits of 1.130 billion stg in 1997 and 1.255 billion stg in 1998.
Shares in Zeneca, which reached an all-time intra-day peak of 1538p, gave up their early gains, but still were holding between 50p and 100p of takeover premium, analysts said.
Zeneca, Britain's third biggest drug company, declined to comment on the takeover speculation, but only two weeks ago, Zeneca's chief executive Sir David Barnes reiterated management's intention to remain independent.
"The company has a glowing future in front of it. We are facing very strong prospects for organic growth. There is no strategic imperative to go scurrying for shelter (with another firm)," he told Reuters in an interview earlier this month after reporting a 21 percent increase in first half profits.
"Zeneca would be a big chunk for anyone to bite off. Roche could do it, but it's not Roche's style to launch a hostile bid," said one analyst who asked not to be named.
"At this stage in the cycle, anything other than an agreed upon bid or a merger is unlikely. It wouldn't make sense for Roche to make an expensive and presumably dilutive acquisition," he added. "But there's no smoke without fire. I think there's something going on somewhere."
Laing's Abbott added, "That's not to say Zeneca might not find a partner to merge with in two or three years. There are a lot of smaller companies that are never mentioned that could be good partners."Hong Kong and Taiwan-based airlines are planning autumn air cargo rates increases to their home markets from European centres, air cargo sources told Reuters said.
Air Hong Kong Ltd (AHK) plans "a small" ex-Europe to Hong Kong cargo rate increase from October and may be followed by Cathay Pacific AirWays Ltd,the latter's Dutch cargo manager said.
Achim van der Graaff, in a Reuters telephone interview from Amsterdam, said the AHK increases are planned for October 1.
"These are marginal increases and I think the market can accept a slightly higher price."
"If the AHK increase are accepted, Cathay may implement similar increases," said van der Graaff.
Cathay, which owns 75 percent of AHK is also its general sales agent in the Netherlands, in Zurich and Paris.
Van der Graaff said the usual April rates review earlier this year did not result in Cathay implementing a rate rise.
AHK chief operating officer, Stanley Hui, told Reuters on August 21 that rates on routes from Europe to Hong Kong will be raised "a little bit".
Taiwanese carrier, EVA Airways Corp said in London at end-July that it is seeking an increase of five to ten percent on all of its ex-Europe to Far East routes from mid-September.
A China Airlines source said today that winter schedule rises are being considered on the routes but "we will also wait and see what the market says."
Competition on routes to Hong Kong and Taipei has been very tough, said one source from a north Asian carrier, adding that it is not really surprising that rates increases are planned, as these are needed to try and rebuild yields. -- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44-171-542-7706 Fax+44-171-542-5017Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264