Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T and MCI.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"We've been in the Internet, in fact profitable and making money in the Internet business, longer than anybody," said Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet Access Services for Sprint.
Industry analysts said Sprint took its time getting into the consumer side of the Internet access business to avoid some of the service glitches that have hurt its larger rivals.
"Some others got not very good press," said Bette Massick Colombo at Bear Stearns & Co. "The fact that they are taking their time is okay. I don't think they've lost ground."
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the global computer network with a local phone call in 212 cities to start, and in more than 300 cities by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. as well as regional Bell operating companies earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
Sprint's service initially will support only the Netscape Navigator search software, but Dodd said the company was taking with Microsoft about including its Explorer "browser" software as well.
"In our first release we won't support the Microsoft browser, but we expect them to be a part of our service shortly," Dodd said.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.
Sprint stock fell 50 cents to $39 on the New York Stock Exchange.Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.Sprint Corp said Tuesday that it sees its market share in the Internet service provider arena topping its position in the long-distance market, which it said averages 10 to 12 percent.
"We have an objective of fast growth and high share, higher than the approximate 10th share that we have in long-distance," Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet Access Services, said in an interview. "We think we can."
Earlier, Kansas City-based Sprint introduced its consumer Internet access service, called Sprint Internet Passport.  
The communications company will first offer the service to 200,000 of its current long-distance customers to "test-drive" it for free before doing a nationwide launch in 60 to 90 days, Dodd said. The service is priced at $19.50 a month for unlimited use or $1.50 an hour, as the customer prefers.
Sprint, which is already a major provider of Internet access to commercial services such as America Online Inc, said it will now use its infrastructure for its own service.  
Sprint plans to add content and high-quality service to give it an edge over other service providers, and offer long-distance and Internet package deals.
"We're pretty confident going in that we have the best economics of any major provider because of our cost structure and existing data networking capabilities," Dodd said, adding the company is currently discussing plans with software providers and companies in the entertainment arena.  
Sprint's service will initially support only the Netscape browser, but Dodd said the company is currently in talks with Microsoft Corp to include its Explorer browser as well.
"In our first release we won't support the Microsoft browser, but we expect them to be a part of our service shortly," Dodd said.  
Sprint is entering the general consumer market after its prime competitors AT&T Corp and MCI Communications Corp already have their services in place. But analysts said in the long run the unrushed entrance into the market is not likely to hurt the company.
"Some others got not very good press," said Bette Massick Colombo, an analyst for Bear Stearns & Co. "The fact that they are taking their time is okay. I don't think they've lost ground."  
Massick Colombo said the service may help Sprint retain customers in the long run, and expects only slight pressure on earnings in the short term as the Sprint gets the service up and running.
"I think it's important to have a full-service package," she said. "They have one of the most advanced data networks in the world."
Sprint is also planning to provide intranet packages for international businesses. Intranets are company-wide networks based on the Internet protocol.
"In the upcoming months you will see all sorts of integrated activity," Dodd said. "We've been in the Internet, in fact profitable and making money in the Internet business, longer than anybody."
--Chicago newsdesk, 312-408-8787Microsoft Corp expects Sprint Corp's new Internet access service to offer the software company's Internet Explorer as an option, a Microsoft official said Tuesday.
Mike Ahern, a Microsoft group product manager, said he hoped an agreement between the two companies could be announced soon. He declined to discuss details.
"We're absolutely talking to Sprint," Ahern said. "We fully expect Sprint will be offering Internet Explorer with their Internet access service."  
Earlier Sprint said it would offer Netscape Communications Corp's Navigator browser for customers of its new service.
But Sprint did not say the relationship was exclusive, and Ahern said he expected an arrangement that would allow customers to choose which browser they use.
Microsoft and Netscape both launched new versions of their Internet browsers this week, marking a new phase in the rivalry between the two companies.
-- Seattle bureau 206-386-4848Sprint Corp said on Tuesday that it chose Netscape Communications Corp to provide the World Wide Web browser for its newly launched Internet service, Sprint Internet Passport.
Sprint said it will also include Netscape Navigator in its retail Internet systems, and said Netscape will feature Sprint as an Internet service provider in Netscape's retail Internet systems.
Sprint, already the world's largest carrier of Internet traffic, according to the company, said its service will include the Navigator software, access speeds up to 28.8 kilobits per second (kbps) and a rebate certificate for a 28.8 kbps modem, and local dial access in 212 U.S. cities.
A pricing plan was not announced.
The announcement moves Sprint into an arena already occupied by AT&T Corp and MCI Communications Corp, as well as several regional Bell operating companies.
--New York Newsdesk, 212/859-1610Sprint Corp is expected to enter the race to make the Internet as widespread for customers as the telephone, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday.
The telecommunications giant, which has 15 million customers and nearly $13 billion in annual revenue, plans to announce on Tuesday a new Internet-access service for consumers, a Sprint executive said.
Though Sprint has been operating a major portion of the Internet since 1992 to serve businesses, the Kansas City, Mo., company has yet to target residential customers, a move that many industry watchers have been waiting for.
The move follows those by several other telecommunications companies that have set their sights on the Internet, ranging from regional Bell operating companies to MCI Communications Corp and AT&T Corp.
Sprint will roll out its service in phases. Beginning on Tuesday, the company will invite 200,000 of its residential long-distance customers to use the service for free until it is made available to the general public in the autumn.
Like its rivals, Sprint will ultimately charge users $19.95 for unlimited monthly usage. Users can also opt for a pay-as-you-go plan whereby they would not pay for a month of service if they did not use it.
Sprint executives expect their service will be used by 20 percent of the Internet's customers with a year, although they decline to quantify that number.As America Online continues to dominate the online services business and new competitors jump into Internet access, online service providers like CompuServe are under more pressure as they try to adapt to the changes.
Tuesday, CompuServe reported a loss for the first quarter and a decline in subscribers, which it had predicted last month. But it also said its losses will carry into the second quarter, which raised some eyebrows on Wall Street.
"In online services, there is AOL and everyone else," said Adam Schoenfeld, a vice president at Jupiter Communications.  
"They (CompuServe) made a strategic decision to abandon their profitable model and they are trying to compete head to head with AOL and they are now paying a price for that," Schoenfeld said.
CompuServe said its losses were due to the decline in subscribers, incremental costs for its Wow! service aimed at novice users, the new version of the CompuServe Information Service, 3.0, and infrastructure improvements in its network.
CompuServe is moving its service to the lower-cost, open architecture of the Internet, but its investment in the new architecture comes at a bad time, a few months after its IPO.  
In April, CompuServe went public, at an initial offering price of $30 a share. On Wednesday, it's shares closed at 11-7/8 after tumbling 1-5/8 on its first quarter report.
And even though America Online still dominates the market, it too has had its share of problems recently and it started a new pricing plan to compete with the encroaching Internet access providers. Two weeks ago, AOL suffered a severe embarrassment when its network was down for 19 hours.
America Online has over six million subscribers to CompuServe's 5.2 million, which includes members of NiftyServe, a joint-venture in Japan.  
Some analysts, however, still forecast that even with AOL's recent problems, the company will still likely reach its target of 10 million subscribers by next year.
"AOL's still growing and CompuServe is not, that's a problem," said Abhishek Gami, of Nesbitt Burns Securities in Chicago. "AOL will continue to be the market share leader for the proprietary service and the plain vanilla ISPs (Internet service providers) will continue to take share from AOL."
Analysts said telcos giants, like AT&T with WorldNet service and now Sprint Corp, will make major inroads in the Internet access market, with their huge customer base.  
"Everyone is trying to cover their bets and provide access and content. Ultimately, I think those guys will have their niche," said Doug Rutherford, an industry analyst with Zona Research in Redwood City, Calif. "Why wouldn't you go with AT&T, MCI, or Sprint, if it's all on the same bill. If you are getting a dial tone, do you care who your phone company is?"
Emily Green, an analyst at Forrester Research, has been long predicting a shift away from online service providers, in favor of direct Internet access providers, as they change too.
"I still think AOL is going to plateau next year," Green said, adding that she does not see members reaching 10 million.  
"I definitely still believe fervently that long term, the ISPs take a lot of opportunity from the online services and what you are seeing is this blending and ultimately the ISPs will look a lot like online services," Green added.
Both CompuServe's and Prodigy's move to become Web-based makes sense from an economical viewpoint, because they get away from managing a costly, proprietary network, with everything based on the Internet. But the move is risky and so far, analysts who have seen an early version of Prodigy on  the Web are not that impressed.
"CompuServe and Prodigy, are going to keep playing around with the rules and how can you get paid for your service," Gami of Nesbitt Burns said.
"The Web market hasn't developed."Lycos Inc said on Wednesday that its software would be used by Sprint Corp in its new Sprint Internet Passport service.
Users who click on the service's Directory button will be using Lycos's navigation services, it said.
CMG Information Services Inc is a majority shareholder.
--New York Newsdesk, 212/859-1610As America Online Inc. continues to dominate the online service business and new rivals jump into Internet access, competitors like CompuServe Corp. are under more pressure as they try to adapt to the changes.
This week, CompuServe reported a $29.6 million loss for its fiscal first quarter and a decline in subscribers, which it had predicted last month. But the online service also said its losses will carry into the second quarter, raising some eyebrows on Wall Street.
"In online services, there is AOL (America Online) and everyone else," said Adam Schoenfeld, a vice president at Jupiter Communications.
"They (CompuServe) made a strategic decision to abandon their profitable model and they are trying to compete head-to-head with AOL and they are now paying a price for that," Schoenfeld said.
CompuServe said its losses were due to the decline in subscribers, incremental costs for its Wow! service aimed at novice users, the new version of its flagship CompuServe Information Service, 3.0, and improvements in its network.
CompuServe is moving its closed, proprietary service to the lower-cost, open architecture of the Internet, but its investment in the new framework comes at a bad time, a few months after its initial public offering.
CompuServe, once a subsidiary of tax preparer H&R Block Inc., went public in April at an initial offering price of $30 a share. Its stock closed at $11.875 Wednesday after dropping $1.625 following the first-quarter report. The stock was 12.5 cents higher at $12 Thursday on Nasdaq.
H&R Block retained an 80 percent stake in CompuServe after spinning it off, but is selling that holding.
Even though America Online still dominates the market, it also has had its share of problems recently. Two weeks ago, it suffered a severe embarrassment when its network went down for 19 hours. It also started a new pricing plan to compete with encroaching Internet access providers.
America Online has more than 6 million subscribers to CompuServe's 5.2 million, which includes members of NiftyServe, a joint venture in Japan and the CompuServe Information Service's more than 3 million members.
Some analysts, however, still forecast that, even with AOL's recent problems, the company will still likely reach its target of 10 million subscribers by next year.
"AOL's still growing and CompuServe is not, that's a problem," said Abhishek Gami, of Nesbitt Burns Securities in Chicago. "AOL will continue to be the market share leader for the proprietary service (model), and the plain-vanilla ISPs (Internet service providers offering Net access only) will continue to take share from AOL."
Analysts said telecommunications giants like AT&T Corp., MCI Communications Corp. and most recently Sprint Corp. will make major inroads in the Internet access market with their huge customer base.
"Everyone is trying to cover their bets and provide access and content. Ultimately, I think those guys will have their niche," said Doug Rutherford, an industry analyst with Zona Research in Redwood City, Calif. "Why wouldn't you go with AT&T, MCI, or Sprint, if it's all on the same bill. If you are getting a dial tone, do you care who your phone company is?"
Emily Green, an analyst at Forrester Research, has long been predicting a shift away from online service providers in favour of direct Internet access providers as they also change.
"I still think AOL is going to plateau next year," Green said, adding that she did not see members reaching 10 million.
She said she still believed fervently that in the long term the Internet service providers will take a lot of business away from online services and that ultimately the Internet providers will look a lot like online services.
In Europe, Europe Online's demise earlier this week was partly due to its untimely decision to follow the proprietary model just before the Internet exploded.
CompuServe and the struggling Prodigy service are moving to become Web-based. Analysts say that strategy makes sense from an economical standpoint because they get away from managing a costly, proprietary network, to one based on the Internet.
But the move is risky. So far, analysts who have seen an early version of Prodigy on the Web are not that impressed.