Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T and MCI.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"We've been in the Internet, in fact profitable and making money in the Internet business, longer than anybody," said Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet Access Services for Sprint.
Industry analysts said Sprint took its time getting into the consumer side of the Internet access business to avoid some of the service glitches that have hurt its larger rivals.
"Some others got not very good press," said Bette Massick Colombo at Bear Stearns & Co. "The fact that they are taking their time is okay. I don't think they've lost ground."
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the global computer network with a local phone call in 212 cities to start, and in more than 300 cities by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. as well as regional Bell operating companies earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
Sprint's service initially will support only the Netscape Navigator search software, but Dodd said the company was taking with Microsoft about including its Explorer "browser" software as well.
"In our first release we won't support the Microsoft browser, but we expect them to be a part of our service shortly," Dodd said.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.
Sprint stock fell 50 cents to $39 on the New York Stock Exchange.