The Trocadero entertainment complex in the heart of London's Piccadilly marked its relaunch on Tuesday after a 50 million pound ($77 million) redevelopment that it said was expected to triple revenues over five years.
"An estimated 55 million visitors a year pass by the Trocadero and some 20 million people come through the centre," Nick Leslau, chief executive of Trocadero Plc, told a news conference.
The challenge, he said, was to convert visitors into money-spending consumers.
Leslau said he expected the retail revenues to triple over the next five years, the time span in which he expects the centre to reach maturity.
He said Trocadero would seek to convert rental agreements into revenue-sharing deals as leases expire.
Trocadero and Japan's Sega together invested about $77 million in redesigning the centre -- shifting its focus from shopping to entertainment and giving it a flashy, high-tech look -- and installing a SegaWorld virtual reality centre due to open next month.
An Imax 3D cinema is to open in early 1997.
The complex's current entertainment and shopping tenants -- including cinemas, an amusement arcade and a Planet Hollywood restaurant as well as shops -- generate retail revenues of about 125 million pounds ($192 million) a year, Leslau said. Trocadero derives its revenues from the rental income it receives from these tenants.
It recently entered into a joint venture for a Marvel Mania themed restaurant to be built adjacent to the Trocadero. The Marvel Mania restaurant, based on characters from Marvel comics, is a joint venture with Robert Earl's Planet Hollywood and Ronald Perelman's Marvel Entertainment Group Inc.
Trocadero's current rental deals provide guaranteed income that is sufficient to cover the complex's service debt and overhead for the next 22 years, Leslau said.
Trocadero Plc was spun off from property management group Burford Holdings last November. Burford had acquired the Trocadero complex in September 1994 for 94 million pounds ($145 million). At that time the Trocadero was a shopping mall.
"The key to success at the Trocadero lay in its transformation from a shopping mall into a premier entertainment destination," Leslau added.