Sprint Corp. Tuesday announced plans to offer Internet access to consumers, jumping into the market to help millions of homes go online after similar moves by rivals AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp.
Kansas City, Mo.-based Sprint, which has operated a big chunk of the Internet for American businesses since 1992, said it would offer the service for free to 200,000 of its existing telephone customers until it is introduced widely in the fall.
After that, consumers will be able to choose a flat rate of $19.95 a month for unlimited access, or $1.50 an hour with no minimum or maximum usage requirement, the nation's third-largest long-distance company said.
"A key goal of Sprint has been to make its comprehensive Internet capabilities directly available to the American public," said Robba Benjamin, president of Sprint's Multimedia Group.
"Most people who have used an online service in the last 10 years have used a Sprint network. They will be able to access this powerful network directly for the first time this fall," Benjamin said in a statement.
Sprint said the service, dubbed Sprint Internet Passport, will provide around-the-clock access to the network with a local phone call in 212 cities at first, which will rise to more than 300 by year-end.
The offering compares with the services rolled out by AT&T and MCI, as well as regional Bell operating companies, earlier this year.
AT&T's entry into the market early this year, which included some free access time, sparked a flurry of competition that sent shockwaves through the consumer Internet access business.
In 1992, Sprint became the first long-distance company to offer commercial Internet service, and now offers access to more than 1,000 Internet service providers and to a host of other businesses. Sprint also provides on-line access for most major proprietary online services.
Sprint has $12.8 billion in annual revenues and serves more than 15 million business and residential customers.
It said its offerings would also include Netscape Navigator, a rebate certificate for a high-speed modem, access speeds of up to 14.4 and 28.8 kilobits per second, a dedicated Web site with e-mail, news, directory and search services, and technical support online or through a toll-free 800 number.
Credit card billing will be offered.