Mazda Motor Corp. is using a foreign celebrity -- its own president -- to revamp its image in Japan.
Company President Henry Wallace, a famous figure in Japan as the first foreigner to head a major Japanese firm, is to star in Mazda's new advertising campaign.
The 50-year-old Wallace will appear in full-page advertisments in five major Japanese newspapers Thursday.
Mazda broke with tradition by putting a foreigner in the driver's seat and is doing so again with its new sales promotion. It is rare for a Japanese company to use photos of its top management in a campaign to sell its merchandise.
The ads will have a full picture of Wallace standing to the left and his comments about the company on the right.
Wallace has become a celebrity in Japan after being appointed president at Mazda, Japan's fifth-largest carmaker, in June.
Sent over by Ford Motor Co. several years ago to help turn around the troubled Japanese automaker, Wallace was given the top spot when Ford increased its equity stake in the company to about one-third.
Wallace comes originally from Edinburgh, Scotland, and has been employed by Ford for 25 years. He first joined Ford's British operation.
Mazda decided to use Wallace in its ads as the result of a survey showing that Japanese found him likeable and impressive, the spokesman said.
The company has been struggling with poor demand for most of its cars and has been in the red on a group net basis for the past three years. The losses were the result of a number of errors in assessing the market, analysts say.
Mazda is hoping a straight-forward approach in its ad will distinguish it from its rivals and capture the attention of consumers.
The ads displaying Wallace will carry the slogan "Practical car, Enjoyable car, That's Mazda."
The ad will be promoting its new compact recreational vehicle, the Demio, which will debut in Japan next week. Compact recreational vehicles are one of the hottest selling models for all Japanese automakers.
Mazda has had a relationship with Ford for many years. In May, Ford raised its stake in Mazda to 33.4 percent from 25 percent -- which gave it control of the management.
Ford sent Wallace to Japan to represent its interests in Mazda two years ago.
"If successful, Wallace may continue appearing in Mazda's future ads," the company spokesman said.